{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red36\green96\blue22;
\red76\green12\blue12;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 From: 
\b0 \cf3 Yuko Yokochi <yyokochi@bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp>\

\b \cf2 Date: 
\b0 \cf3 January 25, 2013 5:17:49 PM GMT+07:00\

\b \cf2 To: 
\b0 \cf3 Arlo Griffiths <arlo.griffiths@efeo.net>, Amandine Lepoutre <amandinelepoutre@gmail.com>\

\b \cf2 Cc: 
\b0 \cf3 Yuko Yokochi <yyokochi@bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp>, Diwakar Acharya <diwakar.acharya@bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp>\

\b \cf2 Subject: \cf3 Re: JSPS\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs28 \cf3 Dear Arlo,\
\
This is my tentative translation.\
\
maaryaadaabhedinaapi "srutivacanapado tena du.hkhaarttacittaa \'95\
naatyaajy aspa.s.ta(14)netraa"s "sara.nam upagataa"s "satravo pi \'a0priyaas syu.h\
loke"sas sthaapito pii"svaragu.nanipuno vismayo naapy akaaryy a-\
traaseviihaaj~nayaanaavinami(15)tamatinaadu.s.tavaakya~n ca dharmme @\
\
[paadas ab]\
By him, though he always transgressed the boundary of morality (the second meaning may be `he always went beyond the usual boundary of morality'), the people following the instructions in the Vedas, whose mind were afflicted with sufferings and whose intellects were dimmed, was not discarded (atyaaji). [By him] the people who seeked for refuge, even the enemies, were favoured (I have interpreted the optative syu.h into the past meaning). \
\
[paadas cd]\
Furthermore, [By him] the Lord of the World (Loke"sa), who is proficient in the lordly virtues, was installed. There was no surprise in this regard. In this world, by him, whose mind did not yield to the respectable Vehicle (aaj~na-yaana, i.e. Mahaayaana?) (the second meaning may be `he, who has lofty mind toward the respectable Vehicle'), the pure words on dharma (i.e. maybe the Buddha's teaching) was observed (asevi).\
\
atyaaji for the plural subject is grammatically incorrect, but it can be allowed in the Epic and Puranic Skt., and therefore in this inscription, too. I follow your proposal of reading the two Aorist passives, atyaaji and akaari, which sounds very fine! Following that, I also read asevi, another Aorist passive, in paada d. \
\
The relationship between each sentence is unclear. Perhaps the paada c is a sort of main sentence. And, paadas a, b and d, which refer to his (the king's) three acts (maaryaada...netraa"s, "sara.nam...syu.h, and asevii...dharmme) may be the reasons why the king's installation of Loke"sa is not to be surprised. But, according to this interpretation, the agent of akaari is to be `the people': `the people were not surprised at this'. This is not consistent with the usage of the two other Aorist passive (atyaaji and asevi), the agent of which is the king.\
\
Can aaj~na, not aaj~naa, be honorific?\
\
I have understood the two adjectives of the king, maaryaadaabhedinaa and aaj~nayaanaavinamitamatinaa, with two meanings, the negative one and the positive one. I have analysed maaryaadaabhedinaa as maaryaadaa-bhedinaa in both meanings, but understanding it as maaryaadaa-abhedinaa in a positive meaning is also possible. \
\
Is the first word `maaryaadaa'? `maryaadaa' with the short vowel for the first syllable is the form in the dictionaries. \
\
I have connected aspa.s.tanetraa"s in paada b with the preceding part, but it can also be connected with the following part. I took the word netra as the synonym of d.r"s, which can mean `intellect, knowledge'. It is also possible to understand `aspa.s.tanetra' in a literal sense as `the people whose eyes are not fully open', in other words, `the people who are not awaken (aprabuddha).'\
\
Yours,\
Yuko\
\
\
----- Original Message -----\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf4 From: Arlo Griffiths <arlo.griffiths@efeo.net>\
To: Amandine Lepoutre <amandinelepoutre@gmail.com>\
Cc: Yuko Yokochi <yyokochi@bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp>,Diwakar Acharya <diwakar.acharya@bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp>\
Date: 2013-01-24 20:45:20\
Subject: Re: JSPS\
\
EXCELLENT!\
\
I'm very happy to hear this news, and of course very ready to help \'a0\
make your second application even better.\
\
I add to this, for Yuko and Diwakar, a riddle from the inscription C. \'a0\
66 (875 CE).\
\
XII. [sragdharaa: - - - - ~ - - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - ~ - - ~ - -]\
maaryaadaabhedinaapi "srutivacanapado tena du.hkhaarttacittaa \'95\
naatyaajy aspa.s.ta(14)netraa"s "sara.nam upagataa"s "satravo pi \'a0\
priyaas syu.h\
loke"sas sthaapito pii"svaragu.nanipuno vismayo naapy akaaryy a-\
traaseviihaaj~nayaanaavinami(15)tamatinaadu.s.tavaakya~n ca dharmme @\
	c. \'b0nipuno: read \'b0nipu.no (Finot).\
\
Finot who edited was at a loss about this stanza; Majumdar who \'a0\
reedited it could only do so with a radical rearrangement and many \'a0\
heavy emendations. Leaving the reading as it is on the stone intact, I \'a0\
have tried to apply different word breaks than Finot, introducing \'a0\
passive aorists atyaaji and akaari, but I still cannot get a good \'a0\
sense. Note that aaj~naa was part of feudal titles in the inscriptions \'a0\
of this period, and may not have its lexical meaning here. The context \'a0\
is Buddhist.\
\
Many thanks in advance for your help.\
\
Warm greetings,\
\
Arlo\
\
\
\
\
\
On Jan 24, 2013, at 6:24 PM, Amandine Lepoutre wrote:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf5 Dear Yuko,\
\
Thanks a lot for your message and all your encouragement. You are \'a0\
absolutely right, there is nothing bad to try. If all of you are \'a0\
still willing to help me... I will send you a new application before \'a0\
the 13 of March. Let's say at the end of February. Will it be fine \'a0\
for you?\
\
With best wishes,\
Amandine\
\
Le 24 janv. 2013 \'e0 07:59, Yuko Yokochi a \'e9crit :\
\
Dear Amandine, \'a0Cc: Arlo and Diwakar,\
\
I should inform you that your application is ranked as B and there \'a0\
seems to be no more information about the evaluation. But, please \'a0\
do not take it as a low opinion on your applicaion because another \'a0\
with me as a host researcher was also evaluated in the same manner \'a0\
and because both of your applications were very good in my opinion. \'a0\
Furthermore, I found that only ten percent among the accepted \'a0\
applications (about 120) are in the field of humanities and \'a0\
sociology, and that 90 percent are for the science and technology. \'a0\
I am sorry I did not study this extreme partiality of this \'a0\
fellowship beforehand.\
\
I recommend you to try the short-term (one-year stay) fellowship of \'a0\
the JSPS. This has been awarded to many scholars in the humanities, \'a0\
and I, as a host, also succeeded to get it for my friend at the \'a0\
last time. You do not need to change much your former application, \'a0\
only adjusting the research plan to the one-year stay. Of course, \'a0\
one year may be too short, but there is nothing bad to try.\
\
The deadline of the applications here is on March 13 for the fourth \'a0\
recruitment of the short-term fellowship. In this fellowship the \'a0\
recruitment takes place every two months. If you like, you can try \'a0\
it later, too. But, sooner will be better.\
\
with best wishes,\
Yuko\
\
\
----- Original Message -----\
From: Amandine Lepoutre <amandinelepoutre@gmail.com>\
To: "yokochi.yuko" <yyokochi@bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp>,Arlo Griffiths <arlo.griffiths@efeo.net \
,Diwakar Acharya <diwakar.acharya@bun.kyoto-u.ac.jp>\
Date: 2013-01-17 22:33:46\
Subject: Re: JSPS\
\
Dear all,\
\
Unfortunately, that is the news I have expected. Thanks a lot \'a0\
Yuko for informing me about the next step but I think I will not \'a0\
apply.\
\
I would like to thank all of you for helping me on this project \'a0\
and wish you the best of luck,\
Amandine\
\
\
Le 16 janv. 2013 \'e0 08:01, yokochi.yuko a \'e9crit :\
\
Dear Amandine, \'a0Cc: Arlo and Diwakar,\
\
It is sad that I have to tell you that your application to the \'a0\
JSPS grant was not\
accepted. I came back from Cambodia yesterday and found it \'a0\
today. The list of the\
accepted applications are on the Japanese website of the JSPS, \'a0\
which is said to\
have been uploaded on the 15th. I was unable to find the \'a0\
information on the English\
website. Maybe it has not yet been uploaded.\
And, it has not yet been informed to the host scholars, which \'a0\
will come soon.\
\
All the applications in the field of Indology and Buddhology \'a0\
that I know are rejected.\
Only five are accepted in the field of humanities. It seems that \'a0\
this grant is so difficult.\
\
There are two choices for the next step, if you are still \'a0\
planning of coming to Kyoto.\
First, we can apply to the same grant again. The application \'a0\
period of the next one\
is in the beginning of May, which means the deadline at this \'a0\
university is probably\
around the first half of April. If successful, you can start \'a0\
your research here from\
the beginning of October. In that case, you should try to revise \'a0\
the former application.\
\
The other choice is to apply to the short-term grant (stay \'a0\
within one year) of the JSPS,\
which is much easier to obtain. So far I once applied to the \'a0\
short-term one as a host\
for a pre-doc German scholar and succeeded. The next recruitment \'a0\
for this is the beginning\
of April and the deadline to submit the application here on the \'a0\
13th of March. We can use\
the same application, changing only the period of your research \'a0\
plan.\
With this grant, if successful, you can start your research here \'a0\
somewhere after\
August.\
\
The rank of assessment for the failed applications (A, B or C) \'a0\
are to be informed\
to the host scholars. If it is in A rank, it may be worth \'a0\
applying to it again.\
But, if it is B or C, trying the short-term grant will be \'a0\
better. Either Diwakar or I\
will write to you when he got the information. Probably some \'a0\
information about\
the result of assessment (e.g. which part is evaluated highly or \'a0\
lowly) will be\
sent to you from the JSPS.\
\
I am very sorry for this sad news.\
\
with best wishes,\
Yuko\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf4 \
\
\
}