{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20060\viewh7500\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 64 Translation\
\
	
\b (1\'962)
\b0  Because of a curse in the past, for that reason th\cf2 ere was a man who became king in the Camp\uc0\u257  country, who ro\cf0 bbed the country, the people and the gods of the citadel of Tralau\uc0\u7749  Svon, the cows, the buffaloes. And all seeds and sprouts, from all the provinces of the Camp\u257  country, then went to radical annihilation.\
	
\b (2\'963)
\b0  After that Y.P.K. the victorious \uc0\u346 r\u299  Harivarmadeva, who is of divine birth \cf2 \'97 namely, [according to] th\cf0 e Pur\uc0\u257 \u7751 as and \u256 gamas, an incarnation of Vi\u7779 \u7751 u \'97, succeeded in expelling the coalition of enemies in the Camp\u257  country. Thereupon that divine incarnation went on to destroy all faults of the Kali (age).\
	
\b (3\'964)
\b0  Only then (
\i pak\uc0\u257  bharuv
\i0 ) was he king in the Campa country. He built an abode as capital and [he rebuilt?] the citadel of Tralau\uc0\u7749  Svon. And then all seeds and sprouts also (
\i tra
\i0 ) became prosperous as before.\
	
\b (4)
\b0  Then Y.P.K. \uc0\u298 \u347 \u257 na and all the other gods and religious foundations (
\i pu\uc0\u7751 ya
\i0 ), of various places, also prospered again (?, 
\i mula\uc0\u7749 
\i0 ).\
	
\b (4\'967)
\b0  In turn he took the 
\i lac
\i0  Khmer country in the west ... all of this one part too. He took all of Southern \cf2 direction\cf0  from the river to Campe\uc0\u347 vara too. He\cf2  met (?) 
\i \cf0 lac
\i0  the northern direction, from the river ... then became vassals of the Camp\uc0\u257  country. After that Y.P.K. the victorious \u346 ri Harivarmadeva also offered to the gods of Madhur\u257 pura in those four [directions]. He installed a li\u7749 ga of \u346 iva at Harin\u257 pura to make fame.\
	
\b (7\'968)
\b0  \cf2 Then\cf0  he offered those Khmers and Viets whom he had captured to the gods of the citadel of Tralau\uc0\u7749  Svon [and those] of various [other] shr\cf2 ines too. He ordered these men to make subject to the taxes of the Camp\uc0\u257  co\cf0 untry ... foreigners and the trad\cf2 ers who a\cf0 rrive in the Camp\uc0\u257  country, always.\
	
\b (8\'969)
\b0  So the Camp\uc0\u257  country became even more prosperous than before. Then Y.P.K. the victorious \u346 r\u299  Harivarmadeva became satisfied ... (royal) property and meritorious gifts, permanent pleasure, always ...\
\

\b Grammatical and lexical commentary
\b0 \
We see here a clear case of the grammatical distinction between the third person pronouns 
\i \'f1u
\i0  (used for persons perceived neutrally or in this case in negative fashion) and 
\i ra 
\i0 (used for high status referents). \
	We presume that there is a connection between the word 
\i pak\uc0\u257 
\i0  and Malay 
\i maka
\i0  \'91then, so\'92; we also presume that 
\i pak\uc0\u257 
\i0  and 
\i k\uc0\u257 
\i0  are related in Old Cam itself. We translate both words as conjunctions. Previous scholars have tended to separate 
\i pa k\uc0\u257 
\i0 .\
	The text offers a clear example of the verbal prefix 
\i ma-
\i0  in 
\i mata\uc0\u109 \u771 l
\i0 \'b7. Previous scholars often separated this prefix (whose use appears to be optional) from the base to which it is attached. Other examples in Old Cam: 
\i mavriy
\i0 , 
\i maje\uc0\u7749 
\i0 , 
\i mad\uc0\u7771 \u7749 
\i0 , 
\i mapadai
\i0 , 
\i marak\uc0\u7779 \u257 
\i0 , 
\i ma\'b0udy\uc0\u257 na
\i0 .\
	Concerning the word 
\i mula\uc0\u7749 
\i0 , always used at the end of clauses, we tentatively assume a connection with Malay 
\i pulang
\i0  \'91to return (home)\'92, without being certain yet of the syntactic function or lexical meaning of the Cam word. The translations provided by Aymonier & Cabaton 1906 for modern Cam do not seem to word well in the inscriptions.\
	The words 
\i ya\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0  and si are clearly cognate with Malay 
\i yang
\i0  and 
\i si
\i0 , which form the head of relative clauses. We translate the Cam words as relative pronouns.\
	ma~mn: \'91alors\'92 ACSA face p. 395\
	pali\uc0\u7749 yak: maybe translatable as \'91destroy\'92, parting somewhat from A&C.\
\

\b Notes on contents
\b0 \
This theme of a curse (\uc0\u347 an\u257 pa) is expressed also in other inscriptions. Cf. e.g. C. 89, face B, l. 16: ... hetu \u347 an\u257 pana ... Other expressions typical for this inscription are found in the same text. See e.g. C. 89, face B, l. 20: 
\i ra vu\uc0\u7717  ur\u257 \u7749  \u7749 an lumvau kruv\u257 v \u7749 an samasta upakara\u7751 a pan\u363 j\u257  devat\u257  dinan
\i0 . We also find noteworthy parallels in C. 94. See face A, l.19: 
\i r\uc0\u257  paje\u7749  .... \u347 van tralau\u7749  \u7749 an samastav\u299 j\u257 \u7749 kura..
\i0 . The word 
\i \uc0\u347 atruma\u7751 \u7693 ala
\i0 , found here in lines 2\'963, is also seen in C. 94, face A, ll. 1 et 12 and  C. 89, face B, l. 8.\
	The sequence
\i  svon hajai tralau\uc0\u7749 
\i0  in our inscription seems to be an error for 
\i hajai tralau\uc0\u7749  svon
\i0 : cf. lines 3 and 7, as well as C. 95, face B, l. 17\'9618.\
	The combination 
\i s\uc0\u299 ...da\u7717 
\i0  seems to be the common word 
\i sida\uc0\u7717 
\i0  split in parts. This hypothesis gets some support from C. 92, face A, l. 1: 
\i mad\uc0\u257  pu p~o tana ray\u257  sa driy sida\u7717  y\u257 \u7749  po~m ku \u347 r\u299  jaya indravarmmadeva ya adhikade\u347 a si pra\u347 asta da\u7717  gr\u257 mapuravijaya.
\i0 \
	On the word 
\i pur\uc0\u257 \u7751 a
\i0 , cf. C. 99 B, (12): 
\i etena pur\uc0\u257 \u7751 \u257 rthena lak\u7779 a\u7751 enaitad gamyate \u347 r\u299  jaya harivarmmadevo ya\u7747  sa uroja eveti ||
\i0  and stanza XVII:
\i  \uc0\u347 iv\u257 nandana\u347 abdasya d\u7771 \u7779 \u7789 en\u257 rth\u257 dri\u7751 \u257  k\u7779 itau u(20)rojo lokav\u257 cyo ya\u7717  pur\u257 \u7751 \u257 rthena lak\u7779 a\u7751 \u299  || 
\i0 (see EEPC 140+143)\
	In line 5, the meaning of 
\i lac
\i0  is unknown. The attested meanings \'91to fall, sink\'92 and \'91bad\'92 do not fit the context. According to the index of EEPC, 
\i lac
\i0  can also mean \'91west\'92, but we see no ground for this assumption.The meaning of 
\i sumr\uc0\u257 \u7749 
\i0  is also unknown, but since it almost always occurs before names of the cardinal points, we tentatively postulate that it means \'91direction\'92.\
	In line 8, the restitution 
\i [de]\uc0\u347 \u257 ntara
\i0  is hypothetical but seems to yield a very fitting sens in the context. We know from Javanese epigraphy that foreigners and traders had special tax obligations in Javanese kingdoms.\
	In line 9, 
\i p\uc0\u7771 ti
\i0  is an alternative spelling for the familiar Sanskrit word 
\i pr\uc0\u299 ti
\i0 .\
}