{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red35\green80\blue169;
\red255\green0\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18320\viewh8260\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 149\
\
I. Homage be to him whom the (people) of the past, present and future in (the three worlds) Bh\uc0\u363 , Bhuvas, Svas, praised, praise and will praise ...\
\
	Cf. Bh\uc0\u363 rbhuva\u7717 sva\u7717 pati in the new H\'e0 Trung stela.\
\
Moreover:\
\
II. The one whose valor is equal to that of \uc0\u346 r\u299 \'92s husband (Vi\u7779 \u7751 u); who fearlessly protects the land of Camp\u257 , like Lak\u7779 m\u299  unwavering despite her own velocity being intact; who always gives to his subjects manifold wealth to fulfill their desires: he is called on earth the illustrious king \u346 r\u299  Jayasi\u7745 havarman.\
\
III. In his royal palaces, the virtuous (
\i sat\uc0\u299 
\i0 ), incomparable \uc0\u346 r\u299  Tribhuvanamah\u257 dev\u299 , the chief queen among royal consorts, the foremost of all, devoted to virtuous deeds, is resplendent with her offspring almost like \u346 r\u299  with her beauty in her husband\'92s palace.\
\
IV. She was the grand-daughter of Lya\uc0\u7749  Vr\u805 ddhakul\u257 , whose lineages were pure, equal as she was to the full moon, and illuminator of the sky which were her two lineages.\
\
V-VI. Furthermore the virtuous first-born of Lya\uc0\u7749  Vr\u805 ddhakul\u257 , Narendr\u257 dhipati, who offered devotion to the lotus-feet of the king, \cb2 whose nature was more desirable than Nature itself\cb1 , had a distinguished daughter, whose own lineage was thoroughly purified by her nature, and she had a son of renowned conduct whose intentions were well-disposed to service of the feet of kings.\
\
	Is Narendr\uc0\u257 dhipati = Mah\u299 ndr\u257 dhipati of C. 167?\
\
VII. Wise, endowed with self-control, virtuous and of skilful comportment, he had his whole body inclined to a king\'92s command, out of his infinite devotion.\
\
He is this captain, most favorite of the king \uc0\u346 r\u299  Jayasi\u7745 havarman, if enviable riches, who was then named Pov Klu\'f1 Pili\u7717  R\u257 jadv\u257 ra. But:\
\
VIII. Having been assigned by the king with a diplomatic task, this \cb2 dignitary\cb1  went to the capital of Yava-Island, and met with success of his mission.\
\
	\cb2 pratipattistha: \'91stable in his determination/behavior\'92\cb1 \
\
For this reason, he obtained the fortune of an exalted position.\
\
IX. 	Subsequently, he who ... by the radiant order of king \uc0\u346 r\u299  Jaya\u347 akti, the son of king \u346 r\u299  Jayasi\u7745 havarman, who protected the earth, was similarly eminent (
\i prabh\uc0\u363 ta
\i0 ) during his illustrious reign \'97 filled everywhere with the production of all manner of wealth.\
	Subsequently, in the illustrious reign \'97 filled everywhere with the production of all manner of wealth \'97 of king \uc0\u346 r\u299  Jaya\u347 akti, the son of king \u346 r\u299  Jayasi\u7745 havarman, who protected the earth with his brilliant command, \cb2 there appeared ... like him.\cb1 \
	\
	Apte Dict. cites a meaning \'91whose order was obeyed\'92 for 
\i iddha\uc0\u347 \u257 sana
\i0  with reference to Kir\uc0\u257 t\u257 rjun\u299 ya.\
\
Furthermore:\
\
X. Having heard ... of the illustrious king \uc0\u346 r\u299  Bhadravarman here ..., after having taken in battle the ... of the enemies, those foes enter a very feverish state, their appearances bristling with excitement\
\
	Majumdar: \'91Fortunate king Sri Bhadravarman .................. his enemies hearing of him become afflicted with fear and the hairs of their bodies stand on end.\'92\
\
On that occasion, he obtained the name Pov Klu\'f1 Suda\uc0\u7751 \u7693 av\u257 sa. And then:\
\
XI. By this (same) assignment of the king he again went to the capital of Yavadv\uc0\u299 pa, and even the second time obtained success of his mission.\'92 \
\
	On the term siddhay\uc0\u257 tr\u257 , see Nilakanta Sastri (1937, 1948\'9649) and Chhabra (1948). Several of the contexts in which it occurs in Sanskrit literature explicitly involve travel by sea. Note Dominic Goodall (2 April 2013): \'ab\'a0There are 3 instances of siddhiyaatr(a/aa) in the Ma~nju"sriyamuulakalpa (of which you probably have an e-text), e.g. 24:183. It seems as though they may refer to the same (sort of) thing as your siddhayaatraa.\'a0\'bb\
\
And then he came into possession of fields at Sud\uc0\u257 \u7749  and Kumuvel thanks to the tremendous grace of the king \u346 r\u299  Bhadravarman towards him. And also:\
	\cb2 or sud\uc0\u257 \u7749 kumuvel = kumuvelbh\u363 mi? See vocabulary notes.\cb1 \
\
XII. (provisional proposals after discussion with Yuko Yokochi)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	It is as if the fame of him, the son of the king called \uc0\u346 r\u299  Bhadravarman, who protects the entire earth that is once again very stable, and has an abundance of fortune thanks to hard-won victories, while she (his fame) is wandering around [and] has become spread out in [all] directions in order to get away from him, spoke, \'91[May] this [woman] laughing [at me], Universal Direction, [become his (the king\'92s)] increasing battle-prize.\'92\
	It is as if this fame of him, the son of the king called \uc0\u346 r\u299  Bhadravarman, who protects the entire earth that is once again very stable, and has an abundance of fortune thanks to hard-won victories, while she (his fame) is wandering around [and] has become spread out in [all] directions in order to get away from him, spoke laughingly (and thus dazzlingly white), \'91[May] the Universal Direction, [become his (the king\'92s)] increasing battle-prize.\'92\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf3 The word 
\i ir\uc0\u257 
\i0  is attested according to Sanskrit dictionaries only in lexicographical sources, but we may accept that 
\i ir\uc0\u257 
\i0  was in use during this period of Camp\uc0\u257  history, for it is found in C. 142, st. XIX (where we must retain 
\i ir\uc0\u257 dh\u299 \u347 a
\i0 \'b0 instead and not emend it as Huber did), or at least by one poet, if, as is likely, both inscriptions were composed by the same poet. In C. 211, we find the derivative 
\i aira
\i0  \'91son of the Earth\'92.\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 	p\uc0\u363 \u7779 ati from the root p\u363 \u7779  with the same meaning of pu\u7779  `to nourish, grow, prosper' is not so usual in the classical Sanskrit, I think. But both MW and Apte register it, and MW says that this verb root is in Dh\u257 tup\u257 \u7789 ha 17.24. p\u363 \u7779 at (or pu\u7779 yat) is present participle and we should supply asti, astu or sy\u257 t,\
if this is adopted. There are two alternate interpretations.\
1. p\uc0\u363 \u7779 atpradhana as Karmadh\u257 raya. `This Sarvadi"s is to be [part of the king's] increasing battle-prize.' (Or `May this woman be ...')\
2. p\uc0\u363 \u7779 atpradhana as Tatpuru\u7779 a. In this case p\u363 \u7779 at denotes the king himself. \'91This Sarvadi\u347  is to be a battle-prize of the prospering one (i.e. the king).\'92\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
XIII.	After having heard about lthat ord \uc0\u346 r\u299  Indravarman, the branches of whose fame had spread (even) in a foreign land, the happy kings praised him uninterruptedly.\
	Having heard this, the happy kings affectionately and uninterruptedly praised that \uc0\u346 r\u299  Indravarman, the branches of whose fame had spread (even) in a foreign land, as overlord.\
\
Thanks to the fact that in general he was dedicated and zealous with regard to the king\'92s order during his reign ..., he got the name Ak\uc0\u257 l\u257 dhipati\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
XIV. Prosperous in nature due to actions resulting from good qualities / Having a personal force augmented by actions for which virtues were constitutive, his intelligence intent upon the policies of the king, he was evidently able somewhat to give some instructions in what is desirable and undesirable for the king.\
\
He had a virtuous first-born. Being one whose (state of) grace was due to king \uc0\u346 r\u299  Indravarman, he became named Pov Klu\'f1 Dharmap\u257 \u7789 ha. \
\
	Majumdar: \'91His eldest son (or brother?) called Suk\uc0\u7771 t\u299  Pov Klu\'f1 Dharmap\u257 tha was a favourite of king Indravarman.\'92\
\
XV.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-13852\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'91Here, beyond the ocean of virtues, he was the Sunrise-mountain of mind, pure like crystal that is brilliant by nature, being a store-house of the riches which are clever thoughts ...\'92\
	Or: \'91the loftiness of mind of [him], who is the ocean of virtue, [mind] that is pure like crystal, brilliant by nature, is the treasure house of plenty of clever thoughts \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 in this world in a high degree (
\i param
\i0 ).\'92\
\
For which reason (
\i yena
\i0 ) this firstborn (son) spoke ... in this way:\
\
The fields in the land of Kumuvel had been obtained by grace of the king. And in the village of Cikir, both at the land where his own mother resides and at the ... place (
\i sth\uc0\u257 na
\i0 ), God is to be established. Why?\
 \
\
XVI. This wealth is in every true scripture described by the Great Sage (the Buddha) as meaningless, even heaped up, even in great quantities, as perishable in an instant, as altogether the least substantial thing on earth.\
	\cb2 cf. K. 1236, st. XIX-XX\cb1 \
\
Majumdar: This wealth, although very great, is unsubstantial ; although accumulated with care it is liable to be destroyed in a moment. It is most useless in this world. Thus has the wealth beem described by the great sage in all scriptures.\
\
XVII. Having had this thought, keen on glory in this world, the intelligent one made efforts to carry out the foundation of the god at the two places.\
\
He, who heart was inclined by the weight of the equipment of merit thanks to the highest virtue, when the \uc0\u346 aka king was marked by Space (0), Fires (3), Auspicious Marks (\
\
XVIII.\
\
XIX. Just as the earth (
\i dhar\uc0\u257 
\i0 ), though fickle, having resorted to the mountain/king, obtains stability, so does this country (come to stability after taking recourse) either to Mahe\uc0\u347 vara or also to the Compassionate one (Loke\u347 vara), due to their power.\
\
----------\
\
D.\
\
(1\'964) These are all of the fields of Y.P.K. Devali\uc0\u7749 ge\u347 vara at Kumuvvel:\
	- the field Bhauk Pu Ak: thirty-seven 
\i galauk
\i0 , its \cf5 product\cf0  ten 
\i j\uc0\u257 k
\i0 , from the houses of the Pag\uc0\u257 r Pin\u257 \u7749  people, following the front (
\i andap
\i0 ) of Sud\uc0\u257 \u7749 , going up to the reserved (
\i vi\uc0\u347 e\u7779 a
\i0 ) tank;\
	- in the \cf5 direction \cf0 of the south: sixty 
\i galauk
\i0 , its \cf5 product\cf0  thirty 
\i j\uc0\u257 k
\i0 , from the boundary marker up to the second point;\
	- in the \cf5 direction\cf0  of the reserved tank up to the field of Krain and the field of Tallav\uc0\u257 r: three hundred and ten 
\i galauk
\i0 , its \cf5 product\cf0  eighty 
\i j\uc0\u257 k
\i0 .\
\
(4\'966) And these are the sowing fields: \
	- from the boundary marker up to the house of Master Flower Chief: seventy-three 
\i galauk
\i0 ;\
	- from the reserved tank up to the god\'92s abode: one hundred and sixty-two 
\i galauk
\i0 ;\
\
(6\'9612) All of the Vraja\uc0\u7749  fields dear to God:\
	- from the back of the forest of the god\'92s abode to the \cf5 open (
\i vand\uc0\u257 \u7749 
\i0 ) forest (of: forest of Vand\uc0\u257 \u7749 )\cf0 ;\
	- from the \cf5 open forest \cf0 to the \cf5 Pandan\cf0  forest;\
	- from the 
\i ajau\'f1
\i0  of that forest to the hill (
\i bhauk
\i0 ) of the sunset (
\i huriy tam\uc0\u257 
\i0 ), everything goes;\
	- from the forest of 
\i ajau\'f1
\i0  lotuses to the 
\i ajau\'f1
\i0  of the forest of a thousand tanks, the forest of the island of a thousand tanks, \
	- the stream (
\i tum
\i0 ) of this northern road and the tanks:\
		- the thousand tanks\
		- the deer tank\
		- the python tank\
		- the tank of 
\i ajau\'f1
\i0  lotuses\
		- the 
\i krain
\i0  tank\
		- the brick (? 
\i akyak
\i0 ) tank\
		- the 
\i kma\uc0\u7745 n
\i0  tank\
		- the curcuma tank\
		- the reserved tank\
	- the stream from the thousands tanks to the northern 
\i stap
\i0  of the domain of Y.P.K. of Trivikramapura; from the south of the domain of Y.P.K. of Trivikramapura to the 
\i stap
\i0  of the torrent which serves as crossing for the people of the district\
	- and all the streams dear to the Y.P.K. of this place.\
\
\
HUBER\
\
(Cham) Voici le total des terrains appartenant au temple de Devalinge\'e7vara:\
	La rizi\'e8re Bhauk Pur\'e2k d'une superficie de 37 galauk et produisant 10 mesures de riz; elle va de la \'ab maison des hommes de l'enclos des ar\'e9quiers \'bb jusqu'\'e0 la Grande Mare au Sud. \'97 La rive sud (de la mare) : 60 galauk, produisant 30 mesures de riz. \'97 Le terrain qui va de la borne du temple (s\uc0\u299 ma) aux deux rives de la Grande Mare, o\'f9 il est born\'e9 par le champ Krain et le champ Talavvar: 310 galauk, produisant 80 mesures de riz.\
	Voici les terres s\'e8ches (o\'f9 on s\'e8me \'e0 demeure): Le terrain qui va de la borne du temple jusqu'\'e0 la maison du chef des fleuristes: 73 galauk; le terrain qui va de la Grande Mare jusqu'\'e0 la \'ab maison du dieu \'bb : 162 galauk. Est donn\'e9 au temple le terrain appel\'e9 Vrajan tout entier; il part de derri\'e8re la for\'eat de la \'ab maison du dieu \'bb pour aller jusqu'\'e0 la foret appel\'e9e Vand\'e2n, de la for\'eat Vand\'e2n jusqu'\'e0 la for\'eat des pandanus; du pied de cette for\'eat il va au couchant o\'f9 il est born\'e9 par la for\'eat \'c0jaun Curaih, le pied de la for\'eat de la mare du tigre, la for\'eat de l'\'eele de la mare du tigre, le chemin septentrional.\
	Voici les mares: La mare du tigre, la mare du cerf, la mare du python, la mare Ajaun Curaih, la mare aux briques, la mare Km\'e2n, la mare Tu\uc0\u328 it, la Grande Mare : celle-ci va de la mare du tigre jusqu'au Nord de la citadelle du seigneur de Trivikramapura, et du Sud de la citadelle de Trivikramapura jusqu'\'e0 , tout cela appartient \'e0 ce temple.\
\
La face D, r\'e9dig\'e9e en cham, n\'92admet, bien entendu, qu\'92une traduction hypoth\'e9tique. Voici quelques mots nouveaux dont je crois avoir trouv\'e9 le sens. Les diff\'e9rences entre le dialecte actuel et la langue des inscriptions s'expliquent presque toutes par le m\'eame fait : chute ou changement du pr\'e9fixe^). C'est l\'e0 une tendance qui, parmi les langues de cette famille, a pris son plus grand d\'e9veloppement en cham et en p\'e9gouan.\
\
Asiy, \'able riz\'bb, aujourd'hui las\'ebi\\ les Djarais ont conserv\'e9 la forme sans pr\'e9fixe : crscri.\
Tluv, \'ab trois \'bb ; aujourd'hui kl\'e2u; les Rades disent encore tlau.\
Dlai, \'ab for\'eat broussaille \'bb ; aujourd'hui glai; en rade encore dl\'e8.\
Tlan, \'ab le python, boa \'bb ; aujourd'hui klan; talaing klan, mais khm\'e8r thlan.\
Ruma\uc0\u7749 , \'ab de, \'e0 partir de \'bb ; aujourd'hui mcrh; la voyelle du pr\'e9fixe est influenc\'e9e par la labiale suivante.\
Vrliy (Bo-mu-ng, B, 5, et Ban-lanh, B, i) (-) \'ab quiconque \'bb ; aujourd'hui le i et ha! ci.\
Dandau \'ablac, \'e9tang, mare\'bb ; aujourd'hui danau; cf. andap, \'ab en avant\'a0\'bb, qui devient dans le parler moderne anap.\
\
(!) Il faut se rappeler que les liquides r et /sont trait\'e9es comme tels. (-) Pr\'e9fixe vr; le b\uc0\u277 r des langues malaises et le mra et pra du khm\'e8r et talaing-.\
\
}