{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15520\viewh15700\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 141\
\
Stela of B\uc0\u7857 ng An\
\
BTLS-QG 
\f1 42280
\f0 \
\
Estampages EFEO n. 154a, 154b. Reproduced as figs. 6 and 7 in BEFEO XI.\
\
Editions: Edouard Huber, Nouvelles d\'e9couvertes arch\'e9ologiques en Annam: 1. La st\'e8le de Bang-An, BEFEO XI (1911), 5-10 [EEPC, pp. 215-220]; Majumdar, pp. 125-129; Golzio, pp. 94-97.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Text (Arlo Griffiths)
\f0\b0 \
Read from the EFEO estampages in June 2011, and from the stone in March 2012. Huber does not indicate in his transliteration that the text is distributed over two faces of a stela. Lines B, 1-17 here correspond to Huber\'92s 16-32. In the present transliteration, \'95 indicates median point used (not entirely consistently) as punctuation mark.\
\

\f2\b Face A.\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
O\uc0\u7745  \u347 iv\u257 ya ||\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 (1)
\f0\b0  (s)vas(ti) \'95\
\
I. [indravajr\uc0\u257 ]\
yo bhasmar\uc0\u257 \u347 y\u257 \u7745  vahusa\'f1cay\u257 y\u257 \u7745  \'95\
divya\uc0\u7717  sukh\u257 s\u299 na (U)ruprabh\u257 va\u7717  \'95\
ded\uc0\u299 pyate s\u363 ryya 
\f2\b (2)
\f0\b0  Iv\uc0\u257 \u7745 \u347 um\u257 l\u257  \'95\
pradyotita\uc0\u7717  khe vigat\u257 mvudeye ||\
	a. vahu\'b0: bahu\'b0 Huber.\
	b. \'b0s\uc0\u299 na (U)ru\'b0: \'b0s\u299 na uru\'b0 Huber. Huber\'92s reading implies an ak\u7779 ara u before ru, but, despite the fact that the stone is a bit worn here, we can be certain that this is not what was written. The required initial u is apparently spelled, not with the ak
\f1 \uc0\u7779 ara u, but with u-vocalization below ak\u7779 ara a. Such spellings are known in other parts of Southeast Asia, but this seems to be a unique case in Camp\u257  epigraphy.
\f0 \
\
II. [indravajr\uc0\u257 ]\
vrahmendravi\uc0\u7779 \u7751 v\u257 daya Eva dev\u257  \'95\
dr\uc0\u805 \u7779 \u7789 v\u257  tad\u257  visma
\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0 yam \uc0\u257 gat\u257 \u7717  syu\u7717  \'95\
tatprajvalanta\uc0\u7745  yam akha\u7751 \u7693 it\u257 bha\u7745 \
nirdh\uc0\u363 maka\u7745  vahnim iv\u257 jyayuktam\'b7 ||\
	a. vrahmendravi\uc0\u7779 \u7751 v\u257 daya: brahmendravi\u7779 \u7751 av\u257 daya Huber.\
	d. \'b0dh\uc0\u363 maka\u7745 : \'b0dh\u363 makam Huber.\
\
III. [\uc0\u347 \u257 rd\u363 lavikr\u299 \u7693 ita]\
devendra\uc0\u7717  kila p\u363 
\f2\b (4)
\f0\b0 rvvato sthita tad\uc0\u257  y\u257 my\u257 \u7745  sarojodbhava\'95\u347 \
candr\uc0\u257 rkk\u257 v iha pr\u805 \u7779 \u7789 hata\u347  ca bhagav\u257 n n\u257 r\u257 yano v\u257 mato\
maddhyastho 
\f2\b (5)
\f0\b0  jvalit\uc0\u257 bhara\u347 misahita\u347  co\u7749 k\u257 rap\u363 rvvai\u7717  svadh\u257 -\
sv\uc0\u257 h\u257 ntair nnijamantrakai\u7717  stutanato yo sau tad\u257 dyai\u7717  su
\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0 rai\uc0\u7717  ||\
	a. sthita: Huber has not recognized (p.\'a08) that this is 
\f3\i asthita
\f0\i0  (impf. med. 3s).\
	b. n\uc0\u257 r\u257 yano: read n\u257 r\u257 ya\u7751 o.\
	c. svadh\uc0\u257 -: the sign presumed to denote 
\f3\i dh
\f0\i0  is not identical in shape to the 
\f3\i dh
\f0\i0  of l.\'a012 on this same face, but it is hard to imagine another reading.\
	d. \'b0mantrakai\uc0\u7717 : \'b0mantrakair Huber.\
\
IV. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
Atha tadbhasmar\uc0\u257 \u347 y\u257  ya\u7717  \'95 samutth\u257 y\u257 tinirmmala\u7717  \'95\
ti\uc0\u7779 \u7789 haty eva nabhomaddhye \'95 s\u363 ryyako\u7789 isama
\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0 prabha\uc0\u7717  \'95 ||\
\
V. [indravajr\uc0\u257  / d: upendravajr\u257 ]\
dik\uc0\u7779 \u257 nimitta\u7745  kila sarvvabh\u257 v\cf2 \uc0\u257 \'95n \
\uc0\u257 s\cf0 v\uc0\u257 va\u347 e\u7779 a\u7745  varabhasma tatra \'95\
ya\uc0\u7717  padmayonau gu\u7751 ama
\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0 \uc0\u7749 gal\u257 rtha\u7745  \'95 \
dadau ca p\uc0\u299 y\u363 \u7779 abhuj\u257 \u7745  sabh\u257 y\u257 m\'b7 ||\
	a. dik\uc0\u7779 \u257 \'b0: read d\u299 k\u7779 \u257 \'b0. Huber did not note that the 
\f3\i i
\f0\i0  is written short.\
	b. \uc0\u257 sv\u257 va\'b0: possibly there is an anusv\u257 ra, and one has to read \u257 \u7745 sv\u257 va\'b0; Majumdar has proposed to emend \u257 jy\u257 va\'b0.\
\
VI. [indravajr\uc0\u257 ]\
sa\uc0\u7745 pady a\u347 e\u7779 \u257 \u7745  pr\u805 thiv\u299 \u7745  niyog\u257 \'95d \
yo bhasmade
\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0 \uc0\u347 \u257 m anu\u347 \u257 sti vi\u7779 \u7751 um\'b7 \'95\
yo ntarhito bh\uc0\u363 t tata eva dev\u257 \
vrahm\uc0\u257 daya\u7717  sv\u257 layam \u257 \u347 u jagmu\u7717  \'95\
	a. sa\uc0\u7745 pady a\u347 e\u7779 \u257 \u7745 : sa\u7745 padya \u347 e\u7779 \u257 \u7745  Huber.\
	d. vrahm\uc0\u257 daya\u7717 : brahm\u257 daya\u7717  Huber.\
\

\f2\b (10)
\f0\b0  | eva deva\uc0\u7717  param\u257 tmaka\u7717  \u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 ne\u347 varo lokagurur nr\u805 p\u257 n\u257 m\'b7 \'95 p\u363 jya\u7717  pra\u7751 amya\u7717  sa-\cf3 \

\f2\b \cf0 (11)
\f0\b0  bhr\uc0\u805 tyavarggai\u347  camparddhihetor jjayat\u299 ha nityam\'b7 || \u347 r\u299 bhadravarmm\u257  bhr\u805 guva\u7745 \u347 an\u257 kacan[d](ra)\

\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0  \{1-2?\}nagar\uc0\u299 n narendra\u7717  gu\u7751 ena vr\u805 ddhy\u257  ca \u347 at\u257 navr\u805 ttim ala\u7749 karoty uttamadh\u299 r iveyam\'b7 |\cf3 \

\f2\b \cf0 (13)
\f0\b0  \{2-3?\} nijitavata\uc0\u7717  \'95 key\u363 r\u257 \u7745 \u347 uprabh\u257 sitabhujavalena \'95 y\u257 t\u257 jayadindubhit\u257 \u7745  nu \{1-2\}\cf3 \

\f2\b \cf0 (14)
\f0\b0  \{2-3?\} ghoragho\uc0\u7779 asa\u7745 kulit\u257 nt\u257 \u7717  || de\u347 \u257 ntar\u257 gatamah\u299 patid\u363 tasa\u7745 gha \'95 ja \{1-2\}\

\f2\b (15) 
\f0\b0 \{2-3?\} y\cf2 u\cf0 galasya nr\uc0\u805 pasya k\u299 rtti\u7717  sa\u7745 p\u363 r\u7751 \u7751 acandradhaval\u257  bhuvanaprak\u299 r\u7751 \u7751 \u257  \'95 pra\cf2 ja\cf0  \{1-2\}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 	
\f0\b0 A10. 	nr\uc0\u805 p\u257 \u7751 \u257 m\'b7\'a0: nr\u805 p\u257 n\u257 m Huber.\
	A11. nityam\'b7: note the form of the vir\uc0\u257 ma descending alongside the consonant.\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	A11. \'b0can[d](ra): \'b0candra Huber.\
	A13. nijitavata\uc0\u7717  \'95\'a0: nijitavata\u7717  | Huber.\
	A13. \'b0dindubhit\uc0\u257 \u7745 : correct \'b0dundubhit\u257 \u7745 . Huber read \'b0dindubhit\u257 m.\
	A14. \'b0kulit\uc0\u257 nt\u257 \u7717  ||: \'b0kulit\u257 nt\u257 \u7717  | Huber. The e of de has apparently been added after the initial engraving of the text. \
	A14. \'b0sa\uc0\u7745 gha \'95\'a0: sa\u7745 gha | Huber.\
	A15. yugalasya\'a0: is the yu also marked with a vocalization r\uc0\u805 ?\
	A15. \'b0k\uc0\u299 r\u7751 \u7751 \u257  \'95\'a0: \'b0k\u299 r\u7751 \u7751 \u257  | Huber.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Face B.
\f0\b0 \

\f2\b (1) 
\f0\b0 \{2-3\}\cf3  \cf0 lena gamit\cf2 \uc0\u257 CvVXX(ma)\cf0 nya\cf2 XXX(s)[t]ibhyo\cf0  (v)ihitatapasa\uc0\u7717  \'95\

\f2\b (2)
\f0\b0  sajjanag\uc0\u299 to bubodha bhuvi \cf2 \{6\}\cf0 j\'f1e \uc0\u347 ucimaticatura\u7717  \'95  p\u363 \cf2 (j)y\uc0\u257 s try\cf0 agn\cf2 \uc0\u299 \cf0 s sur\uc0\u257 \cf2 \uc0\u347  ca \cf0 \

\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0  \{1-2\} maticatura\uc0\u7717  \'95 || \
	B1. Only the ak\uc0\u7779 aras 
\f3\i (v)ihitatapasa\uc0\u7717 
\f0\i0  were read by Huber.\
	B2. bubodha: these ak\uc0\u7779 aras were not read by Huber.\
	B2. p\uc0\u363 (j)y\u257 stry: these ak\u7779 aras were not read by Huber.\
	B3. \'b0catura\uc0\u7717  \'95 ||: \'b0catura\u7717  | Huber.\
\
VII. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
sa\uc0\u7745 p\u257 tu vidu\u7779 o (ka)rmma \'95 sa\u7745 p(\u257 )[t]u [vi](d)u\u7779 o vaca\u7717 \
sa\uc0\u7745  \u347 iv\u257 \cf2 gara\cf0 kail\uc0\u257 sa\u347  \u347 i\cf2 (va) - vado 
\f2\b \cf0 (4)
\f0\b0  \{3\} || \
	c. \uc0\u347 iv\u257 \cf2 gara\cf0 kail\uc0\u257 sa\u347 : the reading is not entirely certain. Emend \u347 iv\u257 \cf2 g\uc0\u257 ra\cf0 kail\uc0\u257 sa\u347 ? Or read \u347 iv\u257 \cf2 dara\cf0 kail\uc0\u257 sa\u347 ?\
	d. Perhaps read \uc0\u347 i\cf2 (va)[bhak]tavaco\cf0 ?\
Peter Bisschop\'92s diagnostic restoration: \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 	sa\uc0\u7745 p\u257 tu vidu\u7779 o karmma sa\u7745 p\u257 tu vidu\u7779 o vaca\u7717  |\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	sa\uc0\u7745  \u347 iv\u257 sanakail\u257 sa\u347  \u347 ivas tu p\u257 tu sarvad\u257  ||\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \
sa Eva tapasv\uc0\u299  tapasy\u257 m anuca[ra]\u347  car\u257 ca[ra]\cf2 guC\uc0\u257  \{3\} sa[n]ni[h]i\{4\}r\cf0 \uc0\u299 ritad\u363 ritadurita(ka)rmm\u257 (\cf2 s/p\cf0 )u \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 (5)
\f0\b0  \{3\} [a]s(u)rapi\uc0\u347 \u257 cavarjjito jitendriyo pi punya\cf2 (sa)XXXro(pa)Xh[i]to \cf0 hitopade\uc0\u347 am a\cf2 n\uc0\u257 ma-\cf3  \cf0 \

\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0  \{3\} y\uc0\u257 gavidvidu\u7779 a\u7745 \cf2  m\uc0\u257 (n)yo \cf0 m\uc0\u257 (\cf2 n\cf0 )itasa(ka)lajano janitaku\uc0\u347 alo lo(ka)y\u257 trapa\u7789 u\u7717  pa\u7789 \u363 n\u257 \u7745  dh\u299 rabu- \

\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0  \{1-2\} r [i]ti || Atha\cf2  \cf0 kad\uc0\u257 cidvel\u257 y\u257 \u7745  dhy\u257 ne samadhigataman\u257 (bha)s(m)\u257 \u7749 gar\u257 ga\u7745  dhaval\u299 kr\u805 ta\u7745  sva\u347 ar\u299 ram avalo-\

\f2\b (8) 
\f0\b0 \{1-2\} (\cf2 dha\cf0 )yat\uc0\u299 dr\u805 \u347 am ida\u7745  bhasma hi k\u7779 \u299 r\u257 r\u7751 \u7751 avatara\u7749 gaphe(nadha)vala\u7745  ku\u7751 \u7693 endudyuti ca kasya dhana\u7745 \cf2  (\uc0\u347 )\cf0 \uc0\u299 la\cf2 CeCiXCiX \cf0 \

\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0  \{1-2\} (\cf2 ma\cf0 )homah\uc0\u257 \u7745 \cf3  \cf2 [tasya] \cf0 [pa]\uc0\u347 upate\u7717  (s)[akalatr]i[bh](u)vanavandi(ta)[cara]\u7751 ayugalasyeda\u7745 \cf3  \cf0 \{4-5\}\cf2 \

\f2\b \cf0 (10)
\f0\b0  \{1-2\} [v/bh]yam eva parame\uc0\u347 varasth\u257 pan\u257  karttavy\u257  may\u257  sarvvamuktaye iti || \{ca. 9\}\cf3 \

\f2\b \cf0 (11)
\f0\b0  [ma]\uc0\u7749 galaniyamita\u347 akapatisamaye prathamabhavabh\u257 nubh\u257 nusutake tu dhara\u7751 i \{ca. 7\}\

\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0  yamithunalagnasuragururajanikaramakarar\uc0\u257 hujalacaraditijaguru \cf2 sama\cf0  \{4-5\} [\uc0\u7779 a-]\

\f2\b (13)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u7779 \u7789 \u257 haraviv\u257 rapunarvvasubh\u257 y\u257 \u7745  [ta]d\u257  parama\u7717  [para]me\u347 vara\u7717  [parama](\u347 )iv\u257 ntare\u347 vara \{4-5\}\

\f2\b (14)
\f0\b0  \{5\} \cf2 svin\uc0\u257  \u347 iv\u257 ntaCai \{6\}\cf0  (mah\uc0\u257 muni)n\u257 mah\u257 munimata \{3-4\} [pra-]\

\f2\b (15)
\f0\b0  ti\uc0\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 pita iti || \
	B4. ca[ra]\uc0\u347  car\u257 ca[ra]\cf2 Cu(ru) \{3\} saCiCi\{4\}C\cf0 \uc0\u299 : these ak\u7779 aras were not read by Huber.\
	B5. punya: read pu\uc0\u7751 ya.\
	B6. m\uc0\u257 nyo m\u257 nita\'b0: the first word is unclear and the second looks more like m\u257 cita\'b0.\
	B6. dh\uc0\u299 rabu-: what seems to be an anusv\u257 ra on top of 
\f3\i ra
\f0\i0  on the estampage reveals itself as an accidental scratch on the stone.\
	B9. [tasya]: the restoration is strictly conjectural, and perhaps impossible, for it is uncertain whether the descender of 
\f3\i y
\f0\i0  would have fit entirely into the surface of the stone that is lost here.\
	B11. tu dhara\uc0\u7751 i: budhapati Huber. Huber\'92s reading is certainly incorrect.\
	B12. \'b0jalacara\'b0: \'b0jaladhara\'b0 Huber.\
	B12. \'b0ditija\'b0: \'b0d\uc0\u299 tija\'b0 Huber.\
\
VIII. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
\uc0\u347 r\u299  bhadravarmma\u7751 \u257  datt\u257  (\'95) tasmai muktir iya\u7745  \cf2 (pa)[r\uc0\u257 ]\cf0 \
[y\uc0\u257 vat s\u363 ]
\f2\b (16)
\f0\b0 ryya\uc0\u347  ca candra\u347  ca t\u257 vad asti mah\u299 tale || \'95\
\
siy\'b7 mapa \{5\} 
\f2\b (17)
\f0\b0  niy\'b7 asuv\'b7 \'f1\uc0\u363  ndoy\'b7 in\u257  \'f1\u363  || \
	B17. asuv\'b7 \'f1\uc0\u363  ndoy\'b7 in\u257  \'f1\u363 : apuv .. ndoy in\u257  .. Huber.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}