{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c100000\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22900\viewh6060\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 C. *237\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Latitude:\'a013.923558\'b0\
Longitude:\'a0108.593825\'b0\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Email TKP 27-03-2014: \'ab\'a0I have just visited Tu Luong Inscription at Tu Luong hamlet, Tan An village, Dak Po dist., Gia Lai prov. its coordinate is: N 13.92551; E 109.59394. Elevation: 434m. The site is close by the Ba river. H: 120cm; W: 140cm; T: 45cm (only inscription). The rock is 220cm high.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 There are 08 lines in front; and 03 lines in back. The script is 04cm high.\'a0\'bb\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Is this the inscription reported on in BEFEO 1928, Chronique, p. 606? (http://www.persee.fr/web/revues/home/prescript/article/befeo\'b70336-1519\'b71928\'b7num\'b728\'b73\'b73159). Tue says that the location was known to local people before 1975.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 General tendency to use retroflex versions of consonants where dental is expected.\cf0 \
\
Cf. C. 56.\
\
Face A\

\b (1) 
\b0 svasti mad\uc0\u257  paramar\u257 j\u257 dh(i)r\u257 ja \u256 -
\b \
(2) 
\b0 tmaja di y\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  po\u109 \u771  k(u) jayasi\u7749 havarma vr\u805 \u7779 uva\u109 \u771 \u7749 \u7779 a (pu po)\u109 \u771 
\b \
(3) 
\b0 k(u) pura r\uc0\u257 jagr\u257 mma \u7749 auk\'b7 glau\u109 \u771  vijaya du\u7749 an\'b7 dra\u109 \u771  r\u257 ja yvan\'b7 kv\u299 ra ma-
\b \
(4) 
\b0 rai
\b  
\b0 tupak\'b7\cf2  \cf0 \uc0\u7779 u\u7717 \cf2  \cf0 khin\'b7 rajan\'b7 yuddha tr\uc0\u257  ta\u109 \u771 l\'b7 dvau tri\u7749 \u7779 a Abhi\u347 e-
\b \
(5) 
\b0 ka\cf2  \cf0 dra\uc0\u109 \u771  Inravarma pa\u7751 \u7693 ap\'b7 dada\u109 \u771 n\'b7 bha\u7751 \u7693 (\u257 )ra\cf2  \cf0 patryak\'b7 lya\uc0\u109 \u771  kan\u257 ya paje\u109 \u771 
\b \
(6) 
\b0 samra\uc0\u109 \u771 ddhipur\u299  di thun\'b7 (bhy\u257 )gra\u7751 ak\u7779 atra pada\u109 \u771 \u7749 \'b7 ma\u7751 \u7693 \u299  va\u7749 an\'b7 pa\u7749 ap\'b7
\b \
(7) 
\b0 s\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  surak\'b7 dada\u109 \u771 n\'b7 Adhv\u257  pava\u109 \u771 k\'b7 vana\u109 \u771 k\'b7 krau\u109 \u771  hay\u257 vv\'b7 paje\u109 \u771  r\u257 jadh\u257 -
\b \
(8) 
\b0 \uc0\u7751 n\u299  mad\u257  ka tmu\u109 \u771  kirenra vap\'b7 vi\u7749 \u7779 a k\u257 la di hay\u257 vv\'b7 Amil\'b7
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 	2\'963. 
\i vr\uc0\u805 \u7779 uva\u109 \u771 \u7749 \u7779 a (pu po)\u109 \u771  k(u)
\i0 : or 
\i vr\uc0\u805 \u7779 uva\u109 \u771 \u7749 \u7779 a (pu po)\u109 \u771  k\u257 
\i0 ? It might be that the stone carver wrote 
\i k\uc0\u257 u
\i0 , i.e. a consonant 
\i k
\i0  with both vowel marker 
\i \uc0\u257 
\i0  and 
\i u
\i0 ; possibly we need to read both 
\i ku
\i0  and 
\i k\uc0\u257 
\i0 . Cf. instances of the sequence 
\i pu po\uc0\u109 \u771  ku k\u257 
\i0  in contemporary inscriptions C. 43, C. 57 and C. 214.\
	3. 
\i du\uc0\u7749 an
\i0 \'b7: emend 
\i dunan
\i0 \'b7? \
	4. 
\i \uc0\u7779 u\u7717 
\i0 : understand 
\i mr\uc0\u805 su\u7717 
\i0 . The expression 
\i marai mr\uc0\u805 su\u7717 /mrasu\u7717 
\i0  is frequently attested; here it is extended with 
\i tupak
\i0 .\
	5. 
\i kan\uc0\u257 ya
\i0 : cf. A&C 
\i kan
\i0  and 
\i kan\uc0\u417 y
\i0 . \cb3 Cf. instance of 
\i kan\uc0\u257 ya
\i0  (interpreted as 
\i kan\uc0\u257  ya
\i0 ) in C. 43.\cb1 \
	6. 
\i (bhy\uc0\u257 )gra\u7751 ak\u7779 atra
\i0 : understand 
\i vy\uc0\u257 ghranak\u7779 atra
\i0 , and cf. C\'9cd\'e8s 1935 (p. 319 about modern Cam usage, pp. 323\'964 on the use of the term 
\i nak\uc0\u7779 atra
\i0 ); and see Ferlus 2010. Cite cases of bh/v interchange in Old Cam (e.g. 
\i avi\uc0\u347 eka 
\i0 in C. 43 etc.).\
	6. 
\i va\uc0\u7749 an
\i0 : correct 
\i va\uc0\u7749 un
\i0 ? Assume sense \'91well\'92 of first entry 
\i ba\uc0\u7749 un
\i0  in A&C, p. 318?\
	7. 
\i s\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771 
\i0 \'a0
\i surak
\i0 : A&C, p. 471, suggests 
\i s\uc0\u257 \u7749 
\i0  could just means \'91place, recipient\'92, so 
\i s\uc0\u257 \u7749  surak
\i0  would be the inscription itself.\
	7. 
\i Adhv\uc0\u257 
\i0 : same word occurs in C. 43.\
	8. 
\i vap\'b7
\i0 : cf. A&C-SA, face p. 325 
\i kirendra vap thun
\i0 , from unedited part of C. 56.\
	8. 
\i Amil\'b7
\i0 : it is tempting to interpret this as a verb that would have the same meaning as Malay 
\i ambil
\i0 ; see Griffiths 
\i et al
\i0 . 2012: 258, n. 125.\
\
Face B
\b \
(1) 
\b0 \{3\}\cf2 k\'b7 (pa)\cf0 dada\uc0\u109 \u771 n\'b7 \cf2 dak\'b7 varn\uc0\u257 \cf0  tr\uc0\u257  mad\u257  ka tmu\u109 \u771  dhava\cf2 l\'b7
\b \cf0 \
(2) 
\b0 \{2\}
\b  
\b0 ra n\uc0\u299  putta di vava\u7717  Air\'b7 la\u7749 uv\'b7 ta\u109 \u771 l\'b7 A\u7779 ta tri\u7749 \u7779 a
\b \
(3) 
\b0 (s\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771 ) surak\'b7 \u347 il\u257 likhitta \u7751 \u299  di r\u257 ja\cf2 mva\cf0 nna n\uc0\u299  1360 ||\
	1. 
\i (pa)dada\uc0\u109 \u771 n\'b7 dak\'b7 varn\u257 
\i0 : cf. C. 4 
\i dada\uc0\u109 \u771 n\'b7 var\u7751 na
\i0 , C. 214 
\i dada\uc0\u109 \u771 n\'b7 var\u7751 na
\i0 ; the reading 
\i pa
\i0  is uncertain, but the form 
\i padada\uc0\u7745 n
\i0  occurs in C. 140, B l. 3; 
\i dak
\i0  might be the word recorded by A&C, p. 213, with meanings \'ab\'a0ranger, arranger, placer, etc. \'85\'a0\'bb, in which case it would be a Cam synonym for 
\i var\uc0\u7751 a
\i0 .\
	1. 
\i mad\uc0\u257  ka tmu\u109 \u771 
\i0 : 
\i mad\uc0\u257  tmu\u109 \u771 
\i0  in C. 30 A1, l. 7; 
\i k\uc0\u257  tmu\u109 \u771 
\i0  in C. 30, A2, l. 7 and C. 89, B ll. 11 and 14.\
	2. 
\i air\'b7 la\uc0\u7749 uv\'b7
\i0 : see A&C-SA, face p. 431 
\i di vaba\uc0\u7717  crau\u7717  la\u7749 \u363 vv
\i0 , from an unedited part of C. 56; consultation of BnF est. shows that reading there is 
\i la\uc0\u7749 uvv
\i0 .\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 	
\b0 3.
\b  
\i\b0 \cf2 r\uc0\u257 ja mvanna
\i0 : understand 
\i r\uc0\u257 jam\u257 na
\i0 ? See C. 225 and cf. 
\i mv\uc0\u257 tuleya
\i0  for 
\i m\uc0\u257 tuleya
\i0 . Alternatively, understand 
\i r\uc0\u257 javana
\i0 ? See 
\i vanna ni
\i0  in C. 43. But in Old Cam, no other cases of 
\i mv
\i0  for 
\i v
\i0 ; in Mod. Cam, several cases where A&C\'92s \uc0\u7685  derives from Skt. v. Or 
\i r\uc0\u257 jasth\u257 nna
\i0 ? Or 
\i r\uc0\u257 jamvagga
\i0  = 
\i r\uc0\u257 jam\u257 rgga
\i0 ? Or 
\i r\uc0\u257 jadhvanna
\i0  = 
\i r\uc0\u257 j\u257 dhva
\i0 ? Or emend 
\i r\uc0\u257 jadharmma
\i0  (cf. C. 42, l. 13)? Or, perhaps most likely, read 
\i r\uc0\u257 jadhvannan\u299 
\i0  and understand as 
\i r\uc0\u257 jadh\u257 n\u299  n\u299 
\i0  (cf. A, l. 7) or 
\i r\uc0\u257 jadhana n\u299 
\i0 .}