{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c100000;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\vieww17160\viewh14200\viewkind0
\deftab708
\pard\pardeftab708\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 138\
\
Stela of An Th\'e1i\
\
BTLS Hanoi LSb 21155 (
\f1\b B\'a02
\f0\b0 , 27)\
\
EFEO estampages: n. 155a, 155b. Reproduced in Huber\'92s edition, figures 30 et 31.\
\
References: Edouard Huber, \'93L\'92\'e9pigraphie de la dynastie de Dong-duong. 2). L\'92inscription de An-thai\'94, BEFEO XI (1911), p. 277-282 [EEPC, pp. 251-256]; Majumdar, pp. 105-109; Golzio, pp. 89-92.\
\

\f1\b Text (Arlo Griffiths & Amandine Lepoutre)
\f0\b0 \
Read from stone and inked EFEO estampage, first by AL in December 2010, then by AG in March 2012. Improved by AG in 2019, with thanks to suggestions received from Francesco Bianchini. Huber has not recorded the \'95 punctuation except in the concluding list of fields. The stone carver\'92s use of this punctuation mark seems to be somewhat erratic.\
\
Face A.\
\cf2 [fleuron] [namo lo]kan\uc0\u257 th\u257 [ya]\cf0  [fleuron]\
	Except for the two fleurons, which he ignored, this is how Huber read the invocation. The text was too damaged here already at the time the estampage was made to retrieve any part of the invocation with confidence, except the second fleuron.\
\

\f1\b (1)
\f0\b0  svasti || \
\
I. [indravajr\uc0\u257 ]\
yena ~ - - ~ ~ - ~ m\uc0\u363 rttir \
vyaktaika - - ~ ~ - ~ - =\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab708\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - - ~ - - \cf2 \uc0\u347 ura\cf0  - ~ \cf2 bhau\cf3 grais\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 tasmai nama\uc0\u7717  
\f1\b (2)
\f0\b0  k\uc0\u257 ru\u7751 ik\u257 ya \cf2 n\cf0 ityam\'b7 | \
	c. \cf4 \uc0\u347 uretipautrais?\cf0 \
\
II. [sragdhar\uc0\u257  \'97 \cf4 scansion still incorrect\cf0 ]\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardeftab708\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - - - - ~ - - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - ~ - - ~ - -\
- - - - ~ - - ~ ~ \cf2 pyam\uc0\u257 tra v\u257 labhito\cf0  
\f1\b (3) 
\f0\b0 \cf2 rakaiv\uc0\u257 krandam\u257 n\u257 \cf0 \
- - - - \cf2 par\uc0\u257 v\u257 \cf0  ~ ~ vigatasukh\uc0\u257  lohada\u7751 \u7693 \u257 bhigh\u257 t\u257 \u7717 \cf2  \
\pard\pardeftab708\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 smr\uc0\u805 tv\u257  loke\u347 varan tv\u257 \u7745  pra\cf2 (ma)
\f1\b \cf0 (4)
\f0\b0 \cf2 (thita)\cf0 durita\uc0\u7745 \cf2  \cf0 kevala\uc0\u7745  mok\u7779 am \u257 pu\u7717  ||\
	d. loke\uc0\u347 varan tv\u257 \u7745  pra\cf2 (mathita)\cf0 durita\uc0\u7745  kevala\u7745  mok\u7779 am: loke\u347 vara ... kevalamok\u7779 am Huber.\
		\cf4 or better: 
\f2\i pra\uc0\u347 amitadurita\u7745 
\f0\i0 ? cf. 
\f2\i pra\uc0\u347 amita
\f0\i0  in l. 6.\
		there seems to be an unwanted anusv\uc0\u257 ra inside 
\f2\i loke\uc0\u347 varan
\f0\i0 , i.e. 
\f2\i loke\uc0\u347 va\u7745 ran
\f0\i0 . check the stone.\
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf4 ----- from here onward the edition is close to finalized, some remaining problems indicated in red  ----\cf0 \
\
III. [sragdhar\uc0\u257 ]\
m\uc0\u257 rair ugrai\u7717  par\u299 t\u257 \u347  ciram api manuj\u257 \u7717  p\u363 rvvakarmm\u257 nurakt\u257 \
nistr\uc0\u257 \u7751 \u257  ni
\f1\b (5)(
\f0\b0 tyadu\uc0\u7717 kh\u257 )\u7717  paramakalu\u7779 it\u257 \u7717  k\u7779 utpip\u257 s\u257 bhibh\u363 t\u257 \u7717 \
p\uc0\u363 rvva\'f1 c\u257 d\u257 nado\u7779 \u257 t sugatavimukh\cf2 ata\cf0 \uc0\u7717  pr\u257 ptak\u257 p\u257 lahaste\
\pard\pardeftab708\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 (6)
\f0\b0  \cf2 (padmabh)\cf0 \uc0\u7771 dvajrap\u257 \u7751 ipra\u347 amitanira\cf2 y\cf0 a\uc0\u7745  (b)uddham\u257 rgga\u7745  sam\u257 pu\u7717  ||\
	a+b. If \'95 signs were written at the end of these two p\uc0\u257 das, they can only be read now with much good will. It seems quite likely that none were written at all.\
	b. nistr\uc0\u257 \u7751 \u257  ni(tyadu\u7717 kh\u257 )\u7717  parama\'b0: nistr\u257 \u7751 \u257  - ~ -\cf2  \cf0 parama\'b0 Huber. The stone is quite worn here, but the proposed restitution seems to agree unproblematically with whatever traces remain visible.\
	c. -vimukhata\uc0\u7717 : emend -vimukhit\u257 \u7717 ?\
	c. pr\uc0\u257 ptak\u257 p\u257 lahaste: pr\u257 pta - ~ - Huber (whose scansion is deficient by two syllables).\
	d. \cf2 (padmabh)\cf0 \uc0\u7771 dvajrap\u257 \u7751 i-: - - - vajrap\u257 \u7751 i- Huber; the restoration was proposed by Kazuo Kano.\
\
IV. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ]\
\uc0\u347 r\u299 bhadravarmmanr\u805 pates tasya mato tyantaballabhatva
\f1\b (7)
\f0\b0 mati\uc0\u7717 \
sujan\uc0\u257 \u7749 ghriyugalasev\u299  ca (n\u257 ga)pu\u7779 pasthaviran\u257 m\u257  ||\
	a. \'b0nr\uc0\u805 pates: \'b0nr\u805 pate\u7717  Huber.\
	a. \'b0ballabha\'b0: read \'b0vallabha\'b0.\
	b. \'b0sev\uc0\u299  ca (n\u257 ga)pu\u7779 pasthavira\'b0: \'b0sev\u299  n\u257 gapu\u7779 pasth\u257 vira\'b0 Huber (unmetrical, presumably in part due to influence from st. XI).\
 \
V. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
loke\uc0\u347 vara\'f1 jagadvy\u257 pta\u7745  \u347 raddh\u257 bh\u257 vair ati\u7779 \u7789 hi
\f1\b (8)
\f0\b0 pat\'b7 \'95\
pr\uc0\u805 thiv\u299 k\u299 rttaye so smai dharmmade\u347 anay\u257 hita\u7717  ||\
	d. dharmmade\uc0\u347 anay\u257 hita\u7717 : dharmmade\u347 anay\u257  hita\u7717  Huber.\
\
VI. [indravajr\uc0\u257 ]\
loka\cf2 pra\cf0  - - \cf2 ntra\cf0 ya\uc0\u347 o\u7745 \u347 u\u347 uddha-\
camp\uc0\u257 dhipas sa
\f1\b (9)
\f0\b0 rvvasukhaprad\uc0\u257 t\u257  \'95\
\uc0\u347 r\u299 Indravarmm\u257  sa surendravarmm\u257 \
tadvattr\uc0\u805 dh\cf2 a\cf0 meva cak\uc0\u257 ra tasmin\'b7\cf3  \cf0 ||\
	a. loka\cf2 pra\cf0  - - \cf2 ntra\cf0 ya\uc0\u347 o-: loka ~ - ~ ya\u347 o- Huber. Huber\'92s scansion is deficient by one syllable. \cf2 There seems to be another subscript 
\f2\i r
\f0\i0  between 
\f2\i pra
\f0\i0  and 
\f2\i ntra
\f0\i0 .\
	lokaprabh\uc0\u257 muttra\
	lokapramod\uc0\u257 ttraya-\
	lokapramodam\uc0\u257 ttra-\
	lokapra\uc0\u347 \u257 nty attra\
	lokapra\uc0\u347 \u257 strattra\
\cf0 	a. -\uc0\u347 uddha-: -\u347 uddha\u7717  Huber.\
	c. \cf2 or read sasurendravarmm\uc0\u257 ?\cf0 \
	d. tadvattr\uc0\u805 dhameva: tadvatkr\u805 tam eva Huber. For Huber\'92s second 
\f2\i ta
\f0\i0 , the actual reading quite clearly cannot be 
\f2\i ta
\f0\i0 . The options seem to be 
\f2\i dha
\f0\i0  or 
\f2\i ca
\f0\i0 . Either way, the text is unmetrical, for a long syllable is required here. \cf2 One could also read 
\f2\i ttr\uc0\u805 
\f0\i0  with subscript 
\f2\i t
\f0\i0  instead of 
\f2\i k
\f0\i0 . On this basis, I accept a conjecture proposed by Yuko Yokochi: 
\f2\i tadvattr\uc0\u805 dhameva
\f0\i0 , substandard spelling for 
\f2\i tadvattridh\uc0\u257 maiva
\f0\i0 .\
	tadvat k\uc0\u363 \u7789 am?\
	tadvad bh\uc0\u7771 \u347 am eva?\
	tad vakt\uc0\u7771 dh\u257 meva\
	tad vakt\uc0\u7771 \u7751 \u257 m eva\
	tadvan n\uc0\u7771 \u7751 \u257 m eva\
	tadvan n\uc0\u7771 po va\cf0 \
\
VII. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ]\
karu\uc0\u7751 \u257 mr\u805 tarasa
\f1\b (10)
\f0\b0 rasika\uc0\u7717  kevalam eva praj\u257 hit\u257 spadakr\u805 t\'b7 \'95\
yo mukti\uc0\u7745  sa ca nikhil\u257 \u7745  pramuditaloke\u347 var\u257 
\f1\b (11)
\f0\b0 y\uc0\u257 d\u257 t\'b7 ||\
\
VIII. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
vajradh\uc0\u257 tur asau p\u363 rvva\u7745  \u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 kyamuni\u347 \u257 san\u257 t\'b7 \'95\
\uc0\u347 unyo pi vajradhr\u805 ddhetu\u7717  buddh\u257 n\u257 m \u257 la
\f1\b (12)
\f0\b0 yo bhavat\'b7 ||\
	c. \uc0\u347 unyo: \u347 \u363 nyo Huber. Corr. \u347 \u363 nyo.\
\
IX. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
padmadh\uc0\u257 tur ato loke\u347 varahetur jjin\u257 laya\u7717  \'95\
Amit\uc0\u257 bhavacoyukty\u257  
\f1\b (13)
\f0\b0  \cf3 @ @\cf0  mah\uc0\u257 \u347 unyo babh\u363 va ha || \cf3 @ @\
	\cf0 d. mah\uc0\u257 \u347 unyo: mah\u257 \u347 \u363 nyo Huber. Corr. \'b0\u347 \u363 nyo.\
	@@ ... @@: fleurons filling the space on both sides of the centered p\uc0\u257 da d.\
\
Face B.\
\
X. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 hubh]\

\f1\b (1)
\f0\b0  cakradh\uc0\u257 tur asau \u347 (\u363 )ny\u257 \'95t\u299 to v(ai)rocan\u257 j\'f1ay\u257  \'95\
vajrasutvasya hetu\uc0\u7717  sy\u257 \'95t tr\u805 t\u299 yo 
\f1\b (2)
\f0\b0  bh\uc0\u363 j jin\u257 laya\u7717  ||\
	ab. \uc0\u347 (\u363 )ny\u257 \'95t\u299 to v(ai)rocan\u257 j\'f1ay\u257 : possibly the actual spelling was \u347 uny\u257 t\u299 to verocan\u257 j\'f1ay\u257 . The stone is too worn here to be sure.\
	c. vajrasutvasya: vajrasattvasya Huber. Huber\'92s is the expected reading (with normalized sppeling ttv), but the presence of the vocalization u is undeniable. \
\
XI. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
n\uc0\u257 gapu\u7779 p\u257 hvayo bh\u257 ti \'95 sth\u257 viras tulya\u347 \u299 ladh\u299 \u7717  \'95\
p\uc0\u363 rvve\u7751 a n\u257 gapu\u7779 p\u257 khye\'95n\u257 tma
\f1\b (3)
\f0\b0 va\uc0\u7745 \u347 ena bhik\u7779 u\u7751 \u257  \'95 ||\
	b. sth\uc0\u257 viras: the long \u257  is undeniable here, but cf. sthavira in st. IV.\
\
Asmai \uc0\u347 r\u299 pramuditaloke\u347 varavih\u257 r\u257 ya tatpu\u7751 y\u257 ya yat sarvvam ida\u7745  
\f1\b (4)
\f0\b0  k\uc0\u7779 etra\u7745  \u347 r\u299 bhadravarmmadevas tadanuj\'f1ay\u257  dattav\u257 n\'b7 \'95 \
punar api sa \uc0\u347 r\u299  Indravarmmadeva\u7717  sakalar\u257 j\u257 dhi
\f1\b (5)
\f0\b0 r\uc0\u257 ja\u7717  tadanugrahasadbh\u257 v\u257 t\'b7 tad eva niyuktam\'b7 ||\
	3. \'b0vih\uc0\u257 r\u257 ya: \'b0vihar\u257 ya Huber.\
	5. \'b0sadbh\uc0\u257 v\u257 t: \'b0sa\u7749 bh\u257 v\u257 t Huber.\
	5. niyuktam: emend niyuktav\uc0\u257 n.\
\
XII. [upaj\uc0\u257 ti of tri\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
gate \uc0\u347 ak\u257 bde yugakar\u7751 \u7751 ak\u257 yai\u7717 \
jye
\f1\b (6)
\f0\b0 \uc0\u7779 \cf2 th\cf0 asya \uc0\u347 ukle navame dine yam\'b7 \'95\
tena prati\uc0\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 pitay\u257 tmak\u299 rttyai\
\uc0\u347 r\u299 lokan\u257 tha
\f1\b (7)
\f0\b0 s tu sa j\uc0\u299 vav\u257 re || \'95 ||\
	c. prati\uc0\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 pitay\u257 tmak\u299 rttyai: corr. prati\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 pita \u257 tmak\u299 rttyai (as already proposed by Huber).\
\
mutiy\'b7daik\uc0\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95 krav\u257 v\'b7k\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95 vuyat\'b7k\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95 gl\u257 \u7745 k\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95\

\f1\b (8)
\f0\b0  dur\uc0\u299 k\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95 vyauv\'b7k\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95 klov\'b7hu\cf2 v\cf0 iy\'b7k\uc0\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95 jr\u257 y\'b7k\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95 tupa\u7745 \u7749 \'b7k\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95 || \'95 || \

\f1\b (9)
\f0\b0  drain\cf3 \'b7\cf0 k\uc0\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95 krata\u7745  k\u7779 etra\u7745  \'95 jal\u257 n\'b7\u7749 auk\'b7k\u7779 etra\u7745  ||\
	7. dai: day Huber.\
	8. huviy\'b7: one could possibly read huriy\'b7.\
\pard\pardeftab708\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}