{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19020\viewh5240\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 C. 138\
\
I. ... perpetual obeisance to that merciful one!\
\
II. ... merely by recollecting you, Loke\uc0\u347 vara, who quell misfortune, did they obtain release.\
\
III. Even humans long afflicted by terrible demons, attached to their former 
\i karma
\i0 , destitute of protection, always suffering, extremely defiled, overcome by hunger and thirst, and averse to the Sugata due to the former sin of not-giving into the hand of a (monk) with begging bowl encountered (while traveling), have found the path of the Buddha on which Padmabh\uc0\u7771 t and Vajrap\u257 \u7751 i pacify hells.\
\
IV. The elder named N\uc0\u257 gapu\u7779 pa, who served the pairs of feet of good people, was as esteemed by that king \u346 r\u299  Bhadravarman as he was intent on being his favorite.\
\
V. Instilled (
\i \uc0\u257 hita
\i0 ) with sentiments of faithfulness by (the elder\'92s) sermon, that (king) erected (an monastery of) the Omnipresent Loke\uc0\u347 vara on behalf of that (elder) for the purpose of (gaining) fame in the world.\
	Comparison with st. XII imposes taking 
\i p\uc0\u7771 thiv\u299 k\u299 rti
\i0  as tatpuru\uc0\u7779 a.\
\
VI. \uc0\u346 r\u299  Indravarman, king of a Camp\u257  purified by the rays of the fame ... the world, who gave pleasure universally, who had the armor of Indra along with the gods, ... made a triple abode in it.\
	\cf2 Yuko Yokochi: Yes, I suppose t\uc0\u7771  is used for tri. dh\u257 ma/dh\u257 man means \'91abode\'92 and tridh\u257 ma indicates the shrine of Vajrap\u257 \u7751 i, Padmap\u257 \u7751 i and Loke\u347 vara. I am not sure whether three shrines, one for each, are intended or one shrine for the trio.\
\cf0 \
VII. Having an exclusive taste for the taste of the nectar which is mercy, founder of good abodes for the people, he gave complete (fiscal) exemption to Pramuditaloke\uc0\u347 vara.\
\
VIII. First, that World-system of the Vajra, the cause of Vajradh\uc0\u7771 t, though empty, was the abode of the Buddhas, due to the Instruction of \u346 r\u299  \u346 \u257 kyamuni.\
\
IX. Then, that World-system of the Lotus, the cause of Loke\uc0\u347 vara, though very empty, was the abode of the Jinas, due to the Instruction of Amit\u257 bha.\
\
X. That World-system of the Wheel, beyond empty, (which) was the cause of Vajrasattva,  was the third abode of the Jinas, due to the Instruction of Vairocana.\
\
XI. Resplendent is the elder called N\uc0\u257 gapu\u7779 pa, equal in conduct and intelligence to the former monk called N\u257 gapu\u7779 pa of his own family.\
\
All this land that \uc0\u346 r\u299 bhadravarmadeva had given, with his (the former N\u257 gapu\u7779 pa\'92s) consent, to this Monastery of \u346 r\u299  Pramuditaloke\u347 vara for his merit, the same has been granted (
\i niyukta
\i0 ) once again by \uc0\u346 r\u299  Indravarmadeva, overlord of all kings, out of his nature (inclined) to favor him (the present N\u257 gapu\u7779 pa).\
\
XII. In the elapsed \uc0\u346 aka year (indicated) by (4) ages, (2) ears) and (8) bodies, on Thursday the ninth day of the waxing fortnight of Jye\u7779 \u7789 ha, has this (image of) \u346 r\u299  Lokan\u257 tha been erected for his own fame.\
\
The field of Mutiy Dai. The field of Krav\uc0\u257 v (buffalo). The field of Vuyat. The field of Gl\u257 \u7749  (\cf3 bangle\cf0 ). The field of Dur\uc0\u299  (thorn). The field of Vyauv. The field of Klov Huriy. The field of Jr\u257 y. The field of Tupa\u7749 . The field of Drain. The field of Krata\u7749 . The field of Jal\u257 n \u7748 auk (road up/high road).\
\
\
\
\
\
}