{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red251\green0\blue7;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red251\green0\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c100000\c0;
\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15640\viewh13360\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 C. 106\
\
Stela of 
\f1 B
\f0 \'e0n L\'e3nh\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-386\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hanoi, BTLS-GQ 21183 (
\f2\b B\'a02
\f0\b0 , 30)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Estampages EFEO n. 158a, 158b, 158c. Fig. 5 (p. 42) in A.V. Schweyer, Les sources \'e9pigraphiques, pp. 36-47 in P. Baptiste & T. Z\'e9phir (eds.), Tr\'e9sors d'art du Vietnam. La sculpture du Champa Ve-XVe si\'e8cles. Paris 2005.\
\
References: Louis Finot, \'93Notes d\'92\'e9pigraphie VI: Inscriptions du Quang Nam. II: St\'e8le de Banh-lanh\'94, BEFEO IV (1904), pp. 99-105 [EEPC, pp. 57-63]; Majumdar, pp. 94-98; Golzio, 78-82.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-10252\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Text (Arlo Griffiths & Amandine Lepoutre)\

\f0\b0 Read from stone and estampages, first by AL in November 2010 and April 2011; then by AG in March 2012 ; then on stone by Salom\'e9 Pichon in june 2022.\
\
On the various punctuation signs used in the Cam parts of this inscription, see the note on this matter given by Finot (p. 100, n. 8). Finot misunderstood as punctuation sign what is actually 
\f3\i o\uc0\u7717 
\f0\i0  \'91not\'92 (cf. the same word in identical context in C. 167, face D, l. 4 and C. 211, face D, l. 8). In the same note, Finot explains that \'ab le croissant [our \uc0\u109 \u771 ] est remplac\'e9 dans cette inscription par le signe de l\'92anusv\u257 ra\'a0: nous continuons \'e0 le rendre par un tilde \'bb. This, we believe, misrepresents the actual historical developments (which Finot could not yet oversee), with the use of \u109 \u771  expanding in the course of time at the expense of \u7745 . In our edition, variant readings involving such punctuation signs and the use of \u7745  are not recorded.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Face A.\
\
[fleuron] || om\uc0\u784  nama\u347  \u347 iv\u257 ya || [fleuron]\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 (1)
\f0\b0  || svasti \'95\
\
I. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
trailokye jayati \uc0\u347 re\u7779 \u7789 has sa \u347 r\u299 jayaguhe\u347 vara\u7717 \
dev\uc0\u257 suramunisa\u7749 ghair nnat\u257 
\f2\b (2)
\f0\b0 \uc0\u7749 ghridvitay\u257 mvuja\u7717  ||\
\
II. [mand\uc0\u257 kr\u257 nta]\
bhuktv\uc0\u257  r\u257 jya\u7745  bhuvi ca mahat\u257  yena cihnena vi\u7779 \u7751 o\u7717 \
sa\uc0\u7745 h\u257 ryy\u257 ta\u7717  kalivi\u7779 ataru\u7745  r\u257 ja
\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0 lak\uc0\u7779 m\u299 viruddham\'b7\
n\uc0\u257 n\u257 d\u257 no vividhavibhava\u7717  k\u299 rttikalpadrumo yas\
taddhem\uc0\u257 \u7693 hyas surajatamayo bh\u363 tale sth\u257 pita\u347  ca ||\
\
III. [\uc0\u347 \u257 rd\u363 lavikr\u299 \u7693 ita]\

\f2\b (4)
\f0\b0  tasya \uc0\u347 r\u299 jayasi\u7749 havarmman\u7771 pater yyo da\u7751 \u7693 av\u257 so bha\u7789 o\
dharmmi\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ha\u7717  patibhaktitatparaman\u257 \u7717  k\u299 rtty\u257 spada\u7717  sampada\u7717 \
khy\uc0\u257 to 
\f2\b (5) 
\f0\b0 g\uc0\u257 dhavi\u347 \u257 labuddhijaladhir llabdhv\u257 \u347 ay\u257 \u347 \u257 pado\
ya\uc0\u7717  pr\u299 tir jjagat\u257 \u7745  mah\u257 ma\u7751 ir iva sth\u257 na\u7745  sthira\u7745  rak\u7779 ati ||\
	b. dharmmi\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ha\u7717 : dharmi\u7779 \u7789 ha\u7717  Finot.\
	c. g\uc0\u257 dha\'b0: corr. g\u257 \u7693 ha\'b0 (as already proposed by Finot).\
\
IV. [pu\uc0\u7779 pit\u257 gr\u257 ]\
k\uc0\u7771 tama
\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0 tir adhiko narendrabh\uc0\u257 (g)ye \
(sa)mahim\uc0\u257  sugu\u7751 akriy\u257 vidagdha\u7717 \
mukhavijitabharir bibhartti lak\uc0\u7779 m\u299 \u7745 \
ni\uc0\u347 i sakal\u257 n nabhavird div\u257  mukhena ||\
	b. sugu\uc0\u7751 a\'b0\'a0: sagu\u7751 a\'b0 Finot.\
	c. \'b0bharir: \'b0varir Finot. Corr. \'b0ravir (as already proposed by Finot, although based on the wrong reading \'b0varir). \
	On the stone I read \'b0varir (sapi).\
	d. nabhavird div\uc0\u257 : nabhavid div\u257  Finot. Finot\'92s is the expected reading, but there is a clear 
\f3\i repha
\f0\i0  that he missed.\
\
V. [\uc0\u347 \u257 rd\u363 lavikr\u299 \u7693 ita]\

\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0  lebhe \uc0\u347 r\u299 jayaIndravarmman\u7771 pater nn\u257 m\u257 ni yas tr\u299 \u7751 i san\
r\uc0\u257 jye ce\u347 varakalpan\u257 mabh\u7771 d atas sa\u7745 st\u363 yam\u257 no 
\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0  dhiy\uc0\u257 \
vidvadbhi\uc0\u347  \u347 ivakalpasa\u7745 j\'f1akadharo ratnaprabh\u257 d\u299 pita\u347  \
\uc0\u347 r\u299 kalp\u257 hvayabh\u7771 t payonidhir iva \u347 r\u299 matkal\u257 la\u7749 k\u7771 ta\u7717  ||\
	a. Change majuscule Atom (sapi)\
\
VI.	[upaj\uc0\u257 ti]\

\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u347 r\u299 rudramaddhye\u347 varam adbhut\u257 \u7749 ga\u7745  \
sa dharmmak\uc0\u257 \u7749 k\u7779 \u299  \u347 ivatatvasev\u299 \
tadbhaktaye \uc0\u347 r\u299 jayasi\u7749 havarmma-\
pras\uc0\u257 data\u7717  sth\u257 pita
\f2\b (10)
\f0\b0 v\uc0\u257 n dharitry\u257 m\'b7 || [fleuron] \'95\
	b. \uc0\u347 ivatatvasev\u299 \'a0: \u347 ivatatvasev\u299  Finot (silent normalization).\
\
y\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pov\'b7 ku siniy\'b7 ranak\u7779 \u257  y\u257 \u7749  guru pu pov\'b7 ku di y\u257 \'f1\'b7 \'95 ta\u7745 l\'b7 thun\'b7 p\u257 t\'b7 slauv\'b7 vr\u257 \u7717 \

\f2\b (11)
\f0\b0  s\uc0\u257  vla\u7717  kaIn\'b7 ka\u7745 n\'b7 y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 guru pu pov\'b7 ku man\'b7 jm\u257 y\'b7 top\'b7 Ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 niy\'b7 v\u257 ra yo tavun\'b7 driy\'b7 \'95 [fleuron] ||\

\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0  niy\'b7 kanadh\uc0\u257  sanupa\u7717 \cf2  \cf0 ntr\uc0\u257  ma\cf2 d(d)an\'b7 \cf0 \uc0\u256 j\'f1\u257  y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pu pov\'b7 ku \u347 r\u299 jayasi\u7749 havarmmadeva \'95 maddan\'b7 Ur\u257 \u7749  tapa\u7717  \

\f2\b (13)
\f0\b0  p\uc0\u257 t\'b7 driy\'b7 \'95 siy\'b7 v\u7771 liy\'b7 Ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 ya\u7745 \u7749 \'b7 marak\u7779 \u257  sarvvadravya y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pu pov\'b7 ku \u347 r\u299 rudramaddhye\u347 vara tra\

\f2\b (14)
\f0\b0  y\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pov\'b7 ku \u347 r\u299 \u347 ivali\u7749 ge\u347 vara tra \'95 hulun\'b7 lamvov\'b7 krav\u257 v\'b7 hum\u257  m\u257 \u7717  pirak\'b7 pasrau\u7749 \'b7 ya nan\'b7 Avi-\

\f2\b (15)
\f0\b0  sta kara\uc0\u7751 a pan\u363 j\u257  y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pu pov\'b7 ku tra Udak\u257 na tra \'95 ur\u257  nan nau svargga maddan\'b7 In\u257  Am\u257  Avisk\u257 la [fleuron]\
	10. ranak\uc0\u7779 \u257 : ranaks\u257  Finot.\
	11. change majuscule atom (sapi)\
	12. sanupa\uc0\u7717 : sanupa Finot. Cf. B, l. 5, but also c, l. 4.\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	12. mad(d)an\'b7: ma
\f3\i d\uc0\u257 
\f0\i0  Finot. Cf. l. 15. It seems the stone-carver has attempted to efface a mistake. A faint subscript \uc0\u7749  is discernible, as is a vir\u257 ma above what seems to be an ak\u7779 ara d\u257  that itself shows traces of being the result of a change of plan midway the engraving process of this sign, notably a vertical element to its right almost invisible on the estampage but discernible on the stone. The possibly intended readings seem to be mad\u257 , mad\u7749 \u257 r\'b7, maddan\'b7.\
	On the stone, it appears clearly as a mad\uc0\u257 .\
	12. change majuscule atom (sapi)\
	13. change majuscule atom (sapi)\
	14. change majuscule atom (sapi)\
	15. ur\uc0\u257  nan: corr. ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 nan. Finot: ur\u257 (\u7749 ) nan. But there is certainly no trace of any \u7749 . The stone-carver again seems to have made secondary changes here, for the stone shows a slight depression.\
	\cb4 maddan: everywhere read mad\uc0\u7749 an?\cf3 \cb1 \
\cf0 	15. change majuscule atom (sapi)\
\
Face B.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 (1) 
\f0\b0 ya siy\'b7 v\uc0\u7771 liy\'b7 Ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 nan tr\u257  ya \cf5 maA\cf6 m\cf0 rait\'b7 \cf2 ya mapaka ro \cf0 driy\'b7 top\'b7 dravya \

\f2\b (2)
\f0\b0  nan\'b7 Avista Ur\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7 nan\'b7 lac\'b7 di mah\u257 raurava Anan naraka \'95 ya do\u7745  \cf2 j\cf0 av\uc0\u257 lamv\u299 \cf2 j\cf0 ut\'b7 Asov\'b7 va\'f1\uc0\u257 k\'b7 \'f1\u363  \

\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u7751 \u7693 auy\'b7 In\u257  Ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 nan\'b7 || \u256 j\'f1\u257  y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pu pov\'b7 ku \u347 r\u299 jayasi\u7749 havarmmadeva \'95 vriy\'b7 y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pov\'b7 ku si- \

\f2\b (4)
\f0\b0  niy\'b7 mata\uc0\u7751 \u7693 \u257 \u7717  Avis\'b7 pat\'b7 \'95 O\u7717  je\u7749 \'b7 si klu\'f1\'b7 O\u7717  je\u7749 \'b7 si top\'b7 Anna tau\u7749 \'b7 tam\u7771 y\u257 la niv\'b7 di k\u257 ra Ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 \

\f2\b (5)
\f0\b0  a\'f1j\uc0\u257 m\'b7 ya O\u7717  je\'f1\'b7 vela A\u7749 gap\'b7 sam\u363  nan\'b7 lagai\u7717  di panakai tra di sanupa\u7717  de\u7717  tra \'95 [fleuron] || \
\cf2 	1. Reading secure, word-division not immediately evident. Check!\
	\cf7 maAm\cf0 rait\'b7: The voyel -
\f3\i ai
\f0\i0  could also be read as -
\f3\i e
\f0\i0  (sapi). \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	2. lac\'b7: lan Finot.\
	2. j...j: b...b, and even other consonants, would also be imaginable.\
	On the stone, it really looks like 
\f3\i ja
\f0\i0 : cf. jaya l. B3 (sapi).\
	3. \uc0\u7751 \u7693 auy\'b7: one could also read \u7751 dauy, as does Finot, although the subscript consonant is identical to the one in mata\u7751 \u7693 \u257 \u7717  in l. 4.\
	5. majuscule Atom (sapi).\
	5. vela: vela\uc0\u7745  Finot. Cf. the word vela in the same context on face c, l. 3.\
	5. panakai: one has the impression that the stone carver started to write nu, but effaced the vocalization to regain na. Cf. panakai on face c, l. 4.\cf3 \
\cf0 \
\uc0\u347 r\u299 v\u7771 ddhe\u347 vare 
\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0  p\uc0\u363 rvva\u7745  prapit\u257 mahena sth\u257 pite paracakrabhinne ya\u7745  \u347 r\u299 \u347 ivali\u7749 ge\u347 a\u7745  yo muni\u347  \u347 iv\u257 c\u257 ryyan\u257 madheya\u7717  
\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0  puna\uc0\u7717  sth\u257 pitav\u257 n iti ||\
\
VII. [indravajr\uc0\u257 ]\
\uc0\u347 aivakriy\u257 vit suk\u7771 taprasakto \
dev\uc0\u257 rccanaj\'f1\u257 nasamarthabuddhi\u7717 \
pitror ggu\uc0\u7751 \u257 n bh\u257 
\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0 ratar\uc0\u257 n sa citte
\f3\i \

\f0\i0 sa\'f1cintya pu\uc0\u7751 ya\u7745  sa karotu k\u299 rttyai ||\
	c. pitror ggu\uc0\u7751 \u257 n: pitror gu\u7751 \u257 n Finot.\
\
VIII. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
\uc0\u347 \u257 ke khadvya\u7779 \u7789 abhir yyukte pa\'f1c\u257 he \u347 ucya
\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0 p\uc0\u257 \u7751 \u7693 are\
sth\uc0\u257 pita\u347  \u347 ivali\u7749 ge\u347 a\u7717  \u347 iv\u257 c\u257 ryye\u7751 a dh\u299 mat\u257  ||\cf3 \
\cf0 \
IX. \cf8 [indravajr\uc0\u257 ]\cf0 \
\uc0\u347 r\u299 rudramaddhye\u347 vara Iddhasiddhi\u7717 \
siddhe\uc0\u347 vara\u347  \u347 r\u299 \u347 i
\f2\b (10)
\f0\b0 vali\uc0\u7749 gadeva\u7717  \
t\uc0\u257 bhy\u257 \u7745  n\u7771 pa\u347  \u347 r\u299 jayasi\u7749 havarmm\u257 \
pr\uc0\u257 d\u257 t sa mukti\u7745  k\u7771 pay\u257  samast\u257 m\'b7 ||\
	a. majuscule Atom (sapi).\
	b. siddhe\uc0\u347 vara\u347 : on the stone, it looks like the stone carver started to write \'b0ddhve\'b0, but effaced the subscript consonant that belongs to the next syllable, \'b0\u347 va (sapi).\
\
hum\uc0\u257  \cf2 nvaus\'b7\cf0  \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 (11)
\f0\b0  timu\uc0\u7717  \u256 j\'f1\u257  y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pu pov\'b7 ku \u347 r\u299 jayasi\u7749 havarmmadeva \'95 ra vriy\'b7 vu\u7717  di y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pov\'b7 ku siniy\'b7 ruma\u7749 \'b7 \

\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0  hum\uc0\u257  \u7749 auk\'b7 ray\u257  ta\u7745 l\'b7 vava\u7717  krau\u7749 \'b7 nayauna riy\'b7 vava\u7717  krau\u7749 \'b7 ta\u7745 l\'b7 smr\u257 \u7749 \'b7 dak\u7779 ina y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 \'95 ||\
	10. nvaus\'b7: or read cvaus\'b7? cvaup\'b7? nvaup\'b7? \
	On the stone, it looks like cvaus\'b7 (sapi).\
	11. timu\uc0\u7717 : for tiju\u7717 ?\
	12. nayauna: na yaun Finot.\
	12. dak\uc0\u7779 ina: dak\u7779 i\u7751 a Finot.\cf3 \
\

\f2\b \cf0 (13)
\f0\b0  niy\'b7 m\uc0\u363 la hum\u257  \'95 hum\u257  (ray\u257 ) 1 | Amvil\'b7 2 | ratvauk\'b7 6 | dandau kumvu\u7749 \'b7 | hum\u257 \cf3  \cf0 kumvu\uc0\u7749 \'b7 1 | \u7749 auk\'b7 s\u257 \u7749 \'b7 1 | hum\u257  mva\u7749 \'b7 2 | \

\f2\b (14)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u7749 auk\'b7 s\u257 \u7749 \'b7 yvan\'b7 2 | pitau cumla\u7749 \'b7 1 | Ajau\'f1\'b7 1 | hum\u257  cva\u7717  5 | la\u7749 \u257  1 | hum\u257  camv\u257 \u7749 \'b7 3 | sagor\'b7 1 | \

\f2\b (15)
\f0\b0  vvac\'b7 1 | tali\uc0\u7749 i 1 | hum\u257  Ik\u363  Asov\'b7 1 | hum\u257  pro\u7749 \'b7 1 | ndo\u7749 \'b7 1 | kn\u257 m\'b7 2 | kandep\'b7 1 | srumai 1 | \

\f2\b (16)
\f0\b0  \cf2 pag\uc0\u257 rasramvat\cf0 \'b7 | hum\uc0\u257  kahas\'b7 1 | hum\u257  mva\u7749 \'b7 5 | nagaren\'b7 \cf2 9\cf0  | hum\uc0\u257  ticain\'b7 1 | vvil\'b7 1 | ral\u257 \u7749 \'b7 3 | la\u7749 \u257  1 | \

\f2\b (17)
\f0\b0  kara m\uc0\u257 s\'b7 3 | \u7749 auk\'b7 ray\u257  1 | vo 2 | hum\u257  tupen\'b7 1 | lik\u363 k\'b7 1 | hum\u257  En\'b7 3 | har\u257  1 | kara ka\u7745 p\'b7 3 | \

\f2\b (18)
\f0\b0  ratvauk\'b7 3 | Alau\uc0\u7749 \'b7 1 | \u7749 auk\'b7 s\u257 \u7749 \'b7 1 | hum\u257  vv\u257 r\'b7 1 | hum\u257  agr\u257 s\'b7 1 | hum\u257  dandr\u257 \u7717  1 | yok\'b7 nan\'b7 1 |\
	13. majuscule Atom (sapi).\
	14. majuscule Atom (sapi).\
	14. s\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7: s\u257 d Finot.\
	14. cumla\uc0\u7749 \'b7: cumha\u7749 \'a0Finot.\
	14. la\uc0\u7749 \u257 : la\u7749  Finot. Cf. C. 68, l. 2, and line 16 below.\
	15. tali\uc0\u7749 i: tali\u7749  Finot.\
	15. pro\uc0\u7749 \'b7: po\u7749 \'b7 Finot.\
	15. srumai: sumai Finot.\
	16. sramvat\'b7: pramvat Finot.\
		\cf2 Cut pag\uc0\u257 r asramvat?\
	\cf6 One could also read sag\uc0\u257 rasramvat\'b7 (sapi). \cf0 \
	16. kahas\'b7: kahap Finot.\
	16. nagaren\'b7 9: nagaren\'b7 4 Finot.\
	16. la\uc0\u7749 \u257 : la\u7749  Finot.\
	17. En\'b7 3: en 2 Finot.\
\
Face c.\
\

\f2\b (1)
\f0\b0  |||| Ur\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7 ya rak\u7779 \u257  pu\u7751 ya niy\'b7 \cf2 y\uc0\u257 \cf0  je\uc0\u7749 \'b7 \

\f2\b (2)
\f0\b0  si v\uc0\u257  An\u257 k\'b7 vinai marai dauk\'b7 A\u7749 guy\'b7 \

\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0  dravya y\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7 niy\'b7 | vela A\u7749 gap\'b7 sam\u363  nan\'b7 \

\f2\b (4) 
\f0\b0 lagai\uc0\u7717  di sanupa\u7717  tra di panakai de\u7717  tra \'95 \

\f2\b (5)
\f0\b0  hum\uc0\u257  Ar\u257 m\'b7 1 | sip\u257 y\'b7 1 | clu\u7749 \'b7 1 | \

\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0  rica\uc0\u7745 m\'b7 1 | hum\u257  vava\u7717  krau\u7749 \'b7 1 | Ava\u7745 k\'b7 \

\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0  5 | vunuk\'b7 2 | vvil\'b7 1 | \'f1ju\uc0\u7749 \'b7 1 | \

\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0  vvaik\'b7 2 | klv\uc0\u257  3 | cumla\u7749 \'b7 1 | Alau-\

\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u7749 \'b7 3 | ku\'f1\u299 k\'b7 1 | kalicya 1 | sa-\

\f2\b (10) 
\f0\b0 vau\uc0\u7749 \'b7 1 | Alauk\'b7 2 | hum\u257  par\u257  \

\f2\b (11)
\f0\b0  1 | pandak\'b7 1 | kn\uc0\u257 m\'b7 2 | \u7749 auk\'b7 s\u257 \u7749 \'b7 \

\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0  2 | hum\uc0\u257  krav\u257 v\'b7 1 | [fleuron]\
	1. \cf2 y\uc0\u257 \cf0 : .. Finot. Or is this a punctuation sign, serving as colon? Or rather a letter crossed out by the stone carver? On the stone, it almost looks like a 
\f3\i la
\f0\i0 .\
	2. majuscule Atom (sapi).\
	4. sanupa\uc0\u7717  tra: sanupa | tra Finot.\
	5. clu\uc0\u7749 \'b7: or read clu\u7749 \'b7? But cf. C. 167, face D, l. 2.\
	6. rica\uc0\u7745 m\'b7\'a0: ri ca\u109 \u771  Finot.\
	8. majuscule Atom (sapi)\
}