{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18340\viewh13860\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 C. 42\
\
Inscription on the back of a sculpture of \uc0\u346 iva from Drang Lai\
\
Boston, Museum of Fine Art, acc. nr. 1986.331.\
\
Estampage EFEO: 266; n. 509. \
	An estampage has been reproduced as fig. 8 (p. 43) in A.-V. Schweyer, \'93Les sources \'e9pigraphiques\'94, pp. 36-47 in P. Baptiste et T. Z\'e9phir (r\'e9ds.), Tr\'e9sors d\'92art du Vietnam. La sculpture du Champa Ve-XVe si\'e8cles. Paris 2005. The estampage is not identified, but it must be EFEO n. 509.\
\
References: Louis Finot, N\'e9crologie. Prosper Odend\'92hal, BEFEO IV (1904), p. 535; Louis Finot, Notes d\'92\'e9pigraphie XIV: Les inscriptions du Mus\'e9e de Hanoi: B 2. Champa 23, BEFEO XV.2 (1915), p. 13, note 4 [EEPC, p. 179]; Majumdar, p. 223; Golzio, pp. 198-199; A.-V. Schweyer 2008, \'93\'c9poque d\'e9cadente ...\'94, p.\'a0227-228.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj
\cf0 BEFEO 27, p. 460: \'93Le Mus\'e9e a re\'e7u par les soins du R\'e9sident de Kontum les sculptures et inscriptions provenant de Dra\uc0\u7749 -lai et de Ya\u7749  Mum qui avaient \'e9t\'e9 group\'e9es \'e0 la R\'e9sidence. C\'92est ainsi que la grande statue de \'c7iva qui tr\'f4nait sur l\'92autel du temple de Ya\u7749  Mum (
\i IC.,
\i0  I, p. 561), le \'c7iva sur Nandin, 
\b le petit \'c7iva assis devant un chevet inscrit au dos
\b0 , et la st\'e8le inscrite sur trois faces (
\i ibid
\i0 ., p. 562, Liste C\'9cd\'e8s, C. 42-43), ces trois derni\'e8res pi\'e8ces provenant de Dra\uc0\u7749 -lai, ont trouv\'e9 au Mus\'e9e un asile plus s\'fbr que celui qu\'92il avait \'e9t\'e9 possible de leur assurer jusqu\'92ici. Il est inqui\'e9tant que l\'92envoi de Kontum ne comprenne ni la \'ab statue de femme en pri\'e8re \'bb provenant du B\u417 mo\u7745  Ya\u7749  du village de Pl\'ea Wao (
\i IC
\i0 ., I, p. 584), ni la cuve \'e0 ablutions de Kon Klor. Ces deux pierres se trouvaient encore \'e0 la R\'e9sidence de Kontum au passage de M. Henri Maspero en 1919 (BE., XIX, v, 103-104) et de M. Louis Finot en d\'e9cembre 1925.\'94\
\
Claeys, BEFEO 28, p. 603-607: 604.\
Dournes, p. 146; 151\
\
See photo 181 in 
\i Missions arch\'e9ologiques fran\'e7aises au Vietnam
\i0 .\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Text
\b0 \
Read by Arlo Griffiths from a photo of the same estampage that was published by A.-V. Schweyer, and from photos supplied by the Museum of Fine Art. Schweyer apparently considered significant parts of the inscriptions \'93illisible\'94 (2008: 227-228), and hence her reading comprises only about half of the text. But in fact the inscription is quite clearly legible throughout. Since Schweyer\'92s reading is so incomplete, variant readings are not recorded here.\
\

\b (1) 
\b0 sida\uc0\u7717  y\u257 ~m pov ku \u347 r\u299  bh\u7771 -
\b \
(2)
\b0  \uc0\u7779 uvi\u7779 \u7751 uj\u257 t(t)i v\u299 rabhadrav\u7771 rmmadeva \u257 -
\b \
(3) 
\b0 d\uc0\u299 n\u257 ma po~m ci~m\cf2  \uc0\u7751 a\cf0 n\'b7\cf2  \cf0 th\uc0\u257 ~m\cf2  \cf0 am\uc0\u257  pu po~m ku
\b \
(4) 
\b0 ur\uc0\u257 ~m paramap\u363 ra \u7749 auk\'b7 glau~m vijaya paja\u7717  parok\'b7
\b \
(5) 
\b0 glai hay\uc0\u257 v\'b7 pava~mk\'b7 krau~m hay\u257 v\'b7 parok\'b7 glai \u7749 ap\'b7 je~m
\b \
(6) 
\b0 hum\uc0\u257  \cf2 bh\uc0\u257 ~m\cf0  ya do\uc0\u7747  yvan\'b7 si pu po~m ku mak di nagara yvan(\'b7) v\u257 
\b \
(7) 
\b0 rai vu\uc0\u7717  \cf2 papam\uc0\u7771 ~m~m\cf0  y\uc0\u257 ~m pu in\u257  ja siddhi pu po~m ku yv\u257  vri~m kire-
\b \
(8) 
\b0 ndra dv\uc0\u257  plu\u7717  kuku~m ka pu po~m ku gvac\'b7 | \u7749 an\'b7 ya do\u7747  mahn\u257 kire-
\b \
(9) 
\b0 ndra vuka~mn\'b7 ya sy\uc0\u257 \u7747  r\u363 pa ka pu po~m ku gvac\'b7 mad\u257  do[\u7747 ] pram\u257 nna
\b \
(10) 
\b0 pada(~m)\uc0\u7749 \'b7 ruma\u7717  vri~m n\u257 ma \u347 r\u299 sam\u7771 ~mddhipur\u299  \cf2 pak\uc0\u7771 (~m)\cf0 tta kut\uc0\u299  dak\u7779 in\u257 -
\b \
(11) 
\b0 gni harmya nan\'b7 vri~m \uc0\u347 ilpak\u257 ra | rijan\'b7 \u347 ivaprathim\u257 nna pyau\u7717  bha-
\b \
(12)
\b0  nakti prathidinna di loka \uc0\u7749 an\'b7 paraloka dudi~m nau | mayv\u257  di pu p-
\b \
(13) 
\b0 o~m tana ray\uc0\u257  dudi~m ya d\u7771 ~m\u7749 \'b7 r\u257 ja jmai pali\u7749 yak\'b7 r\u257 jadharmma
\b \
(14) 
\b0 1331\
\

\b Notes
\b0 \
The punctuation sign | apparently has to be ignored in order properly to break down the text.\
	Comparison with the opening of inscriptions such as C. 30A1, C. 30B4, C. 47, C. 86, C. 89B and C. 225 strongly suggests that at least one, possibly two lines of text would, in the original state of the inscribed sculpture, have preceded the text as we have it now. Given the limited amount of space that would have been available between tapering margins, one expects little more that what we read e.g. in C. 86, lines 1-2: [fleuron] 
\i mad\uc0\u257  pu po~m tana ray\u257  sida\u7717  y\u257 ~m po~m ku \u347 r\u299  jayaparame\u347 varavarmmadeva
\i0  ..., or perhaps a shorter version of what we see in C. 225, l. 1-3: 
\i [|] @ | svasti | jaya ni tr\uc0\u257  mad\u257  paramar\u257 j\u257 dhir\u257 ja sida\u7717  y\u257 ~m po~m ku \u347 r\u299  vra\u7779 uvi\u7779 \u7751 uj\u257 t(t)i v\u299 rabhadravarmmadeva
\i0  ... . So the line-numbers adopted in this edition are off by 1 or 2 from the original state of the text.\
\

\b Translation
\b0 \
It is Y.P.K. \uc0\u346 r\u299  B\u7771 \u7779 uvi\u7779 \u7751 uj\u257 ti V\u299 rabhadravarmadeva. The original name of that (
\i \uc0\u7751 an
\i0 ?) prince, like his father, P.P.K., is Man of Paramap\uc0\u363 ra \u7748 auk Glau\u7749  Vijaya. \
	He cleared and cut down the forest of Hay\uc0\u257 v (\'91Fish\'92?). He dammed the Hay\u257 v river. He cut down the forest. He made the ricefields become dry (
\i bha\uc0\u7749 
\i0 ?). All the Viets whom P.P.K. captured in the land of the Viets, he brought [them] here and gave [them] as 
\i papam\uc0\u7771 ~m
\i0  (cf. Old Khmer 
\i pamre
\i0 ?) to Milady the Mother who is successful. P.P.K. \cf3 as guest (
\i yv\uc0\u257 
\i0 ?)\cf0  gave twenty 
\i kirendra
\i0  (\'91montagnards\'92? correct 
\i mahn\uc0\u257 kirendra
\i0 ?) which/who(m) (
\i kuku~m = ku~m
\i0 ?) to P.P.K. 
\i gvac
\i0  \cf4 (ignore the punctuation |)\cf0  together with all the other 
\i mahn\uc0\u257 kirendra
\i0 s who were beautiful in appearance to P.P.K. 
\i gvac
\i0  present \cf2 in\cf0  all provinces. He erected a palace giving it the name \uc0\u346 r\u299 sam\u7771 ddhipur\u299 . He had made (
\i pak\uc0\u7771 ~mtta = pa-k\u7771 ta
\i0 , causative prefix on Sanskrit form 
\i k\uc0\u7771 ta
\i0  meaning \'91made\'92?) a chamber for the south fire of that stronghold. He instructed an artisan to make a statue (
\i prathim\uc0\u257 nna = pratim\u257 
\i0 ?) of \uc0\u346 iva. \
	[He admonished the population:] Let there be worship every day, with a view to (the prosperity of all and sunder in) the world [here] and later in the next world! \cf3 Go (ignore the punctuation |) as guests \cf0 to their majesties in the future who will hold the kingdom (
\i r\uc0\u257 ja = r\u257 jya
\i0 )! Do not destroy the king\'92s foundation. \
	[Engraved in the \uc0\u346 aka year] 1331.\
\

\i \cf3 mayv\uc0\u257 
\i0 \cf0 : \'91follow, pay heed to\'92, cf. C. 161.\

\i jmai
\i0 : see Thurgood, p. 321.\
\
}