{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17140\viewh7280\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 1\
\
Inscription of Bi\'ean Ho\'e0\
\
Estampage EFEO: 263. The hand-drawn facsimile Fig. 6 in BEFEO IV is quite unfaithful to the original.\
\
Editions and references: Etienne Aymonier, JA 1891, pp. 84-85, No. 419; Antoine Cabaton, L\'92inscription chame de Bien-Hoa, BEFEO IV (1904), pp. 687-690; Louis Finot, Notes d\'92\'e9pigraphie XIV: Les inscriptions du Mus\'e9e de Hanoi: B 2. Champa 23, BEFEO XV.2 (1915), p. 14; Majumdar, p. 224; Golzio, pp. 199-200.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs36 \cf0 See photo 192 in Missions arch\'e9ologiques fran\'e7aises au Vietnam.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Text (Arlo Griffiths)
\b0 \
Verified using estampage EFEO 263.\
\

\b (1)
\b0  | @ | svasti | pu po\uc0\u109 \u771  ku nan\'b7 s\u363 nnu \

\b (2)
\b0  y\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  po\u109 \u771  ku \u347 r\u299  jaya si\u7749 havarmmadeva \

\b (3)
\b0  ur\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  \u7749 auk\'b7 glau\u7749 \'b7 vijaya parip\u257 la r\u257 \u7779 tra si\u109 \u771  tmu\u109 \u771 \

\b (4)
\b0  jaya di nagara yvan\'b7 m\cf2 a\'b0u\cf0 dy\uc0\u257 \u7751 na gul\u257 c\'b7 tok\'b7 nagara \

\b (5)
\b0  bra\uc0\u7717  k\u257 nda n\u299  yuddha aneka si\u109 \u771  tmu\u109 \u771  gul\u257 c\'b7 je\u109 \u771  nagara ca-\

\b (6)
\b0  mpa di \uc0\u347 aka loka a\u7779 \u7789 \u257 rdh\cf2 a\cf0 nala\uc0\u7717  \u7751 rapa\u7717  [1343] pakra\u109 \u771 ttha tri-\

\b (7)
\b0  bhavan\uc0\u257 kr\u257 nta n\u299  \u7749 an\'b7 ra jitta sa tr\u257  si si\u109 \u771  tmu\u109 \u771  jaya di kv\u299 ra \

\b (8)
\b0  tmu\uc0\u109 \u771  vu\u7717  bhogopabhoga yath\u257 deva li\u7749 ga vukan\'b7 ri\u109 \u771  si\u109 \u771  jmai tmu\cf2 [\uc0\u109 \u771 ] \cf0 \

\b (9)
\b0  je\uc0\u109 \u771  nagara kv\u299 ra je\u109 \u771  nagara campa sad\u257 k\u257 la |\
\

\b Variant readings\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Variants merely due to difference of transliteration/transcription system are not recorded.\
3. ur\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771 : ura\u7749  Cabaton.\
3. r\uc0\u257 \u7779 tra: r\u257 \u7779 \u7789 ra Cabaton.\
6. a\uc0\u7779 \u7789 \u257 rdhanala\u7717 : a\u7779 \u7789 \u257 rdh\u257 nala\u7717  Finot (BEFEO IV, p. 690 n. 5); \u7779 a\u7779 \u7789 \u257 rth\u257 nala\u7717  Cabaton; a\u7779 \u7789 \u257 rdh\u257 nala\u7717  Aymonier (chez Cabaton, p. 690). We have to understand with Finot and Aymonier a\u7779 \u7789 \u257 rdha-anala\u7717 .\
6. \uc0\u7751 rapa\u7717 : thus Finot (ibid.); \u7751 dapa\u7717  Cabaton. The same spelling is found in C. 43 B, l. 4 and 7.\
6. sakra~ttha: pakra~ttha Cabaton. Cf. C. 43 \cf2 A, l. 9 and c, l. 15 and 21\cf0 ; C. 118.\
6-7. tribhavan\uc0\u257 kr\u257 nta: correct tribhuvan\u257 kr\u257 nta.\
7. ra jitta: vijitta Cabaton.\
7. kv\uc0\u299 ra: kv\u299 r Cabaton.\
8. vukan\'b7: vuk\uc0\u257 n Cabaton.\
9. kv\uc0\u299 ra: kv\u299 r Cabaton.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Beginning of a translation
\b0 \
(1-3) Hail! The P.P.K., son of Y.P.K. \uc0\u347 r\u299  Jaya Si.mhavarmadeva, man of \u7749 auk Glau\u7749  Vijaya, was protector of the realm.\
(3-5) He has obtained victory in the land of the Viet, [and] returned to take this land of Bra\uc0\u7717  K\u257 nda [through] many battles.\
(5-6) He has succeeded to create again (? tmuv gul\uc0\u257 c je\u7749 ) a Campa land in \u347 aka (3) worlds, half-of-eight (4), (3) fires, (1) king (i.e. in 1343 \u347 aka)\
...\
(7-8) He obtained victory in Cambodia and succeeded to give Bhoga and Upabhoga per deity for various li\uc0\u7749 gas.\
(8-9) Also let the Khmer land never rule it, but [let] the Campa land [rule it] forever.\
\
ri\uc0\u109 \u771  = \'e9galement (ACSA 419)\
jmai = C. 13 C, l. 6; must be the same as jm\uc0\u257 y of C. 42; C. 106 A, l. 11; C. 161; C. 175, l. 2; C. 199 A, l. 1; but it can hardly mean \'91pearls\'92. It is the vetative!\
It seems from this inscription that tmuv might have adverbial function, e.g. as \'91already\'92.\
\
\
 }