{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15720\viewh9720\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 173\
\
Inscription to V\uc0\u257 lm\u299 ki of Prak\u257 \u347 adharman, on a pedestal from Tr\'e0 Ki\u7879 u\
\
Estampage EFEO: n. 508.\
\
Editions: Paul Mus, \'c9tudes indiennes et indochinoises: I. L\'92inscription \'e0 V\uc0\u257 lm\u299 ki de Prak\u257 \'e7adharma (Tr\'e0-ki\'eau), BEFEO XXVIII (1928), pp. 147-152 [EEPC, pp. 291-296]; Golzio, pp. 11-12.\
\
The inscription runs over two lines along \cf2 two\cf0  of the four vertical faces of a square pedestal. The sequence is face 1 (\'93gauche\'94, two lines), face 2 (\'93droite\'94, two lines).\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Text (Arlo Griffiths)
\b0 \
Mus\'92 reading verified in comparison with the estampage.\
\
I. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\

\b (1)
\b0  [siddham] yasya \uc0\u347 ok\u257 t samutpanna\u7747  \u347 loka\u7747  brahm\u257 bhip\u363 j(ati)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 vi\uc0\u7779 \u7751 o\u7717 \cf0  pu\uc0\u7749 sa\u7717  pur\u257 \u7751 asya \cf2 m\uc0\u257 \cf0 nu\cf2 \uc0\u7779 asy\u257 \cf0 tmar\uc0\u363 pi\u7751 a\u7717 \
	b. \uc0\u347 loka\u7747 : \u347 lokam \cf2 Mus\cf0 .\
	c. pu\uc0\u7749 sa\u7717 : pu\cf2 m\cf0 sa\uc0\u7717  \cf2 Mus\cf0 .\
\
II. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (2)
\b0  = = = \cf3 (ca)\cf0 rita\uc0\u7747  k\u7771 tya\u7747  k\u7771 ta\u7747  yen\u257 \cf2 bh\cf0 i\uc0\u7779 \cf2 ecanana\cf0 \uc0\u7747 \
kaver \uc0\u257 dyasya mahar\u7779 \u7779 er vv\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 lm\uc0\u299 ke\u347  \cf3 cuvane\cf0 r iha \
	a. = = = \cf3 (ca)\cf0 rita\uc0\u7747 : x x x x rita\u7747  Mus.\
	d. \cf3 cuvane\cf0 r iha: \uc0\u347 ru ~ - r iha Mus. \cf3 My reading is merely an attempt to render what I see, and implies no understanding. The vowel before r seems to be an e, and there seems to be no space for ai or o.\cf0 \
\
III. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\

\b (1)
\b0  \cf2 (p)\uc0\u363 j\u257 sth\u257 na\cf0 \uc0\u7747  punas tasya k\u7771 ta - Cy = ~ - ~ -\
prak\uc0\u257 \u347 adharmman\u7771 patis sarvv\u257 riga\u7751 as\u363 \cf2 d\cf0 ana\uc0\u7717 \
	a. \'b0sth\uc0\u257 na\u7747 : \'b0sth\u257 nam Mus. The word p\u363 j\u257 sth\u257 na is attested in two other dedication inscriptions of the same king, viz. C. 79 and C. 136.\
	b. k\uc0\u7771 ta - Cy =: k\u7771 ta - - y \cf2 Mus\cf0 . I assume one less ak\uc0\u7779 ara before and more after the one bearing a subscript y, thinking that one might restore something like k\u7771 ta[v\u257 n] ya ... .\
	d. sarvv\uc0\u257 ri\'b0: sarv\u257 ri\'b0 Mus.\
\
IV. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\

\b (2)
\b0  vidy\uc0\u257 \u347 aktik\u7779 am\u257 lak\u7779 (m)\u299 k\u299 rttidhairyya[gu\u7751 \u257 ]n(v)i(ta\u7717 )\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf3 (jaya)\cf0 ty e\uc0\u7779 a jagatk\u257 nta\u347  \u347 \u257 rade ntarite [v]i[dhau]\
	c. \cf3 (jaya)\cf0 ty e\uc0\u7779 a: x x ty e\u7779 a Mus.\
	d. [v]i[dhau]: [r]i[pau] Mus. The new reading was proposed to me by Dominic Goodall. It seems unlikely that the enemy would be equated with the autumn, as Mus reading implies. This is precisely the season associated with beauty of the moon due to its proverbial clear skies. The idea rather seems to be that the autumn moon itself would be eclipsed by the king.\
}