{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18940\viewh9960\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 137\
\
Pedestal from Tr\'e0 Ki\uc0\u7879 u\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 BTLS Hanoi 21182 = Hanoi : B 2, 31\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
EFEO estampage: n. 159.\
\
References: Edouard Huber, \'93\'c9tudes indochinoises IX: Trois nouvelles inscriptions du roi Prak\uc0\u257 \u347 adharma du Camp\u257 ; 3. L\'92inscription de Tra-kieu\'94, BEFEO XI (1911), pp. 262-264 [EEPC, pp. 236-238]; Majumdar, pp. 13-14; Golzio, p. 11.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Text (Arlo Griffiths)
\b0 \
Read from the estampage, in March 2012.\
\
I. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 g\u299 ti]\

\b (1)\cf2  
\b0 [siddham]\cf0  \uc0\u347 akti\u7717  parasya na ripu\u7747  k\u7779 apayati gamit\u257 pi da\u7751 \u7693 abhedabhayena\

\b (2) 
\b0 [ya]sya tv ada\uc0\u7751 \u7693 abhed\u257  sakalam arim abh\u299 r bhinatti \u347 aktibh\u7771 ta iva ||\
\
II. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 g\u299 ti]\

\b (3)
\b0  sa \uc0\u347 r\u299 prak\u257 \u347 adharmm\u257  n\u7771 pati\u7717  kandarppadharmma\u7751 o dhara\u7751 ibhuja\u7717 \

\b (4)
\b0  p[r]apit\uc0\u257 mah\u299 pitur ida\u7747  sth\u257 pitav\u257 n arcan\u257 ya p\u257 dukayugalam\'b7 ||\
	d. p\uc0\u257 duka\'b0: ha\u7789 aka\'b0 Huber.\
\

\b Translation (Dominic Goodall)
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 I. The power (
\i \uc0\u347 akti
\i0 ) of [his] rival destroys no enemy, even when it is brought near by the fear of (political manoeuvres such as) punishment or sowing of dissension.\'a0\
But the one whose dauntless [spear (
\i \uc0\u347 akti
\i0 )], like that of the spear-wielder [Skanda himself], destroys every enemy without its shaft ever breaking (
\i ada\uc0\u7751 \u7693 abhed\u257 
\i0 ),\
	or \'97 But the one whose [mere] gesture of protection (
\i abh\uc0\u299 
\i0 ), without need of resorting to [the political manoeuvres of] punishment or the sowing of dissension, has brought low every enemy, as though he were in fact holding a spear (
\i \uc0\u347 aktibh\u7771 ta iva
\i0 ),\
	or \'97 But the one who is like Skanda and for whom [the \uc0\u346 akti of \u346 iva, in initiation (cf. the term 
\i \uc0\u347 aktip\u257 ta
\i0 )], arousing no fear and resorting to neither punishment nor sowing of dissension, has broken every [internal] enemy,\
II. namely the king \uc0\u346 r\u299  Prak\u257 \u347 adharman, has installed this pair of footprints in order to praise king Kandarpadharman, the father of his paternal great-grandmother.\
\

\b Commentary
\b0 \
We assume three levels of punning (
\i \uc0\u347 le\u7779 a
\i0 ) in the first stanza. The first two play on the possibility of taking
\i  \uc0\u347 aktibh\u7771 t 
\i0 either literally, or as epithet of the war-god Skanda; on the possibility of interpreting 
\i abh\uc0\u299 
\i0  in two different ways; and on the different possibilities of analyzing the compound 
\i ada\uc0\u7751 \u7693 abhed\u257 
\i0 . The third sense may be less obvious to most readers. But in a footnote in the Preface to his edition of the 
\i Par\uc0\u257 khyatantra 
\i0 (p. xix, n. 17), Dominic Goodall has discussed \uc0\u346 aiva punning on the words 
\i \uc0\u347 akti
\i0  (spear or power, of king, Skanda or \uc0\u346 iva) and 
\i ari
\i0  (enemies, worldly or internal) in a late 7th-century inscription of Pallava king Narasi\uc0\u7747 ha II. He has there provided textual references in support of taking 
\i arivarga
\i0  \'91group of enemies\'92 as referring to the human senses or passions, as well as passages illustrating the (descent of) divine power as crucial element in \uc0\u346 aiva initiation. In further support of the assumption of this third sense, he has shared with us his interpretation of a stanza in a somewhat later inscription. This is K. 528 (Eastern Mebon, 953 CE, ed. Louis Finot in 
\i BEFEO
\i0  25, 309\'96352), stanza XX, and it comprises three crucial elements that we also see in ours:\
\
\uc0\u257 s\u257 dya 
\b \uc0\u347 akti\u7747 
\b0  vivudhopan\uc0\u299 t\u257 \u7747  m\u257 he\u347 var\u299 \u7747  j\'f1\u257 namay\u299 m amogh\u257 m\

\b kum\uc0\u257 ra
\b0 bh\uc0\u257 ve vijit
\b \uc0\u257 ri
\b0 varggo yo d\uc0\u299 pay\u257 m \u257 sa mahendralak\u7779 m\u299 m ||\
\
\'91After attaining the Power of Mahe\uc0\u347 vara that consists in [the power of] Knowledge and that is never failing [viz. after attaining initiation] [and that has been] transmitted by gods/by the wise, being in youth (or: as crown-prince, or: as Kum\u257 ra, i.e. Skanda) one whose enemies [/the passions] were conquered, he caused the glory of Mahendravarman to shine.\'92\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
}