{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14620\viewh14460\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 C. 214\
\
Inscription of the Nh\uc0\u417 n H\u7843 i Peninsula\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Text (Arlo Griffiths & Amandine Lepoutre)\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 Based on \
	- photo furnished by AVS of uninked estampage at Mus\'e9e Guimet\
	- consultation of inked estampage and photos supplied by Binh Dinh provincial Museum = EFEO n. 2069\
\
(om\uc0\u784 )\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (1) 
\b0 ... pu pa ...\

\b (2) 
\b0 ... [p]u po\uc0\u109 \u771  tana ray\u257  ya d\u7771 [\u109 \u771 ] ...
\b \
(3) 
\b0 ... (na/n\'b7) dada\uc0\u109 \u771 n\'b7 var\u7751 na ur\u257 \u109 \u771  avi\u7717  \

\b (4)
\b0  [\cf2 |\cf0 ] svasti |  y\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  po\u109 \u771  ku \u347 r\u299  v\u7771 \u7779 u vi\u7779 \u7751 uj\u257 tti v\u299 rabhadrava[rm](m)[ade-]\

\b (5)
\b0  va | b\uc0\u7771 \u7779 uva\u7749 \u7779 a \u257 di p\u363 ra \u7749 gauk\'b7 glau\u109 \u771  vijaya | pratham\u257 vi\u347 eka\

\b (6)
\b0  di \uc0\u347 aka eka-loka-naya-r\u257 ma [1343] ta\u109 \u771 l\'b7 \u347 aka r\u257 ja-aggi-v\u257 \cf2 nu\cf0 -ca-\

\b (7)
\b0  k\uc0\u7779 u [1352] pu po\u109 \u771  ku k\u257  rijan\'b7 dhvajakalpa pa\'f1c\u257 k\u7779 ara\cf2  \cf0 kl\uc0\u257 \u7717  di pa\cf2 nce\cf0 dri-\

\b (8) 
\b0 ya kl\uc0\u257 \u7717  di pa\'f1cat\u257 ppa \u7749 an\'b7 rijan\'b7 \u347 attaya\'f1\'f1a pa\'f1camakutta\

\b (9) 
\b0 pu po\uc0\u109 \u771  ku k\u257  imya\u109 \u771  mvo\u7717  v\u257 kya y\u257 \u109 \u771  po\u109 \u771  ku \u347 r\u299 jayasi\u7749 ghavarmma-\

\b (10) 
\b0 deva \cf2 rak\uc0\u7779 \u257  \cf0 di r\uc0\u257 ja dudi\u109 \u771  pu po\u109 \u771  ku k\u257  mapuna\u7717  vumvo\u109 \u771  pavvak\'b7 anva-\

\b (11) 
\b0 k(\'b7) vri\uc0\u109 \u771  adhy\u257  vu\u7717  ... \cf2 [a few more ak\uc0\u7779 aras could probably be recovered here from M. Guimet est.]\cf0 \

\b (12)
\b0  \cf2 mra\uc0\u109 \u771 k\'b7 \cf0 y\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  n\u299  ||\
\

\b Notes on readings
\b0 \
om\uc0\u784 : the trace of a sign above line 1 is likely to have been the descending part of this invocation.\
4. [|]: space does not seem sufficient for a more substantial liminal sign, and comparison with the lay-out of C. 128 suggests that only a da\uc0\u7751 \u7693 a originally preceded 
\i svasti
\i0  here.\
5. p\uc0\u363 ra\u7749 gauk\'b7 glau\u109 \u771  vijaya: cf. C.\'a043 A, l.\'a03 
\i p\uc0\u363 ra\u7749 auk glau\u109 \u771  vijaya
\i0 .\
5. pratham\uc0\u257 vi\u347 eka: understand 
\i pratham\uc0\u257 bhi\u7779 eka 
\i0 (cf. C.\'a043 A, l.\'a01-2 for the same spelling). Or pratim\uc0\u257 bhi\u7779 eka? See C. 42, l. 11.\
6. aggi: understand 
\i agni
\i0 .\
7. pa\'f1ca: the stone actually seems to show 
\i panthe
\i0 .\
10. k\uc0\u257  mapuna\u7717 : or analyze k\u257 ma puna\u7717 ? Cf. C. 43 A, l. 15 k\u257 ma udy\u257 na or k\u257  ma\'b0udy\u257 na?\
\

\b Vocabulary
\b0 \
\uc0\u7749 gauk: seems to be a spelling variant of \u7749 auk, widely attested elsewhere (ACSA, facing p. 115).\
rijan: cf. C. 43 A, l. 10.\
kl\uc0\u257 \u7717  di: \'91without\'92 (TP). The sequence also figures in C.\'a043 etc. It rather seems to mean \'91get released, escape from\'92 (A&C p.\'a085). Or, \'91to perform asceticism\'92?\
imya\uc0\u7749 : see A&C p. 31 \'91to look at, to see\'92\
mvo\uc0\u7717 : identified with mod. Cam bo\u7717  in EEPC (see index). Cf. A&C p.\'a0357. The word has more or less the same meaning as imya\u7749 . Cf. another synonymous dyad using the later word, cited A&C p. 31.\
dudi\uc0\u109 \u771 : \'91after, following, next\'92 (A&C p.\'a0225). The word occurs also in C.\'a043.\
vumvo\uc0\u7749 : cf. C.\'a090 A, l.\'a022 puna.h vumvo"n; C. 94 B, l. 11. ACSA face 456; cf. vumau\u7749  = mod. bumau\u7749 , A&C 339.\
pavvak: \'91to run into, to miss\'92 (TP) or rather \'91to cause to return\'92 (A&C p.\'a0284)? Or \'91to attach\'92 (?, = mod. pavak, A&C, 283).\
anvak: EEPC \'91sorte de b\'e2timent\'92; see in file for C. 43.\
	Comments Sanderson (email 23 May 2011): \
\'93I don't think that the word pa\'f1ca indicates a P\uc0\u257 \u347 upata connection. The Siddh\u257 nta too is pentadic: pa\'f1ca vaktr\u257 \u7751 i faces (Tatpuru\u7779 a etc.), five Brahmamantras, five kal\u257 \u7717  (niv\u7771 tti\u7717  etc), pa\'f1ca k\u7771 ty\u257 ni (s\u7771 \u7779 \u7789 i\u7717  etc.), etc. The pa\'f1c\u257 k\u7779 ara of the inscription indicates rather a universal \u346 aiva orientation, one that includes the uninitiated laity, the pa\'f1c\u257 k\u7779 ara being the sarvas\u257 m\u257 nyamantra, which any devotee can employ: [o\u7747 ] nama\u7717  \u347 iv\u257 ya. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 	I guess that pa\'f1cat\uc0\u257 ppa =pa\'f1catapa[\u7717 ], which is seen widely in brahmanical and \u346 aiva sources, referring to the ascetic practice on sitting in summer under the hot sun surrounded by four fires.\
	I guess that pa\'f1camakutta = pa\'f1camaku\uc0\u7789 a, but do not remember having seen this expression and can offer no explanation with confidence. Perhaps it refers to a crown with panels representing the five faces of \u346 iva (the five brahm\u257 \u7751 i), like the maku\u7789 a worn by Buddhist Tantric \u257 c\u257 ryas with five panels, one for each of the Tath\u257 gatas.\'94\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Image
\b0 \
A. Sanderson informs us (email 23 May 2011): \'93[on the image] which I take to represent a \uc0\u346 aiva \u256 c\u257 rya, compare Abdul Waheed Khan, A Monograph on the Discovery of Mural Paintings of Kalyani Calukyas at Alladurg (Hyderabad: Govt. of Andhra Pradesh) [Govt. of Andhra Pradesh Archaeological Series No. 25], 1973, pp. 1-7 and Plate I ("Lakul\u299 \u347 a or \u346 aiva \u256 gamic guru").\'94 Similar images with similar and contemporary inscriptions inscribed on their backs are known as C. 128 (unfinished inscription) and C. 215 (on torso fragment of a stela with seated god). See also images of statue in Quang Ngai museum furnished by Tran Ky Phuong, and list of \u346 aiv\u257 c\u257 rya\'92s furnished by Sanderson. Plus statue in Museum Nasional, Jakarta.\
}