{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 From: 
\b0 \cf3 Alexis Sanderson <alexis.sanderson@orinst.ox.ac.uk>\

\b \cf2 Date: 
\b0 \cf3 May 23, 2011 7:11:38 AM GMT+07:00\

\b \cf2 To: 
\b0 \cf3 Arlo Griffiths <arlo.griffiths@efeo.net>\

\b \cf2 Subject: \cf3 RE: \uc0\u346 aiva \u256 c\u257 rya\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs28 \cf3 Dear Arlo,\
\
I don't think that the word pa\'f1ca indicates a P\uc0\u257 \u347 upata connection. The Siddh\u257 nta too is pentadic: pa\'f1ca vaktr\u257 \u7751 i faces (Tatpuru\u7779 a etc.), five Brahmamantras, five kal\u257 \u7717  (niv\u7771 tti\u7717  etc), pa\'f1ca k\u7771 ty\u257 ni (s\u7771 \u7779 \u7789 i\u7717  etc.), etc. The pa\'f1c\u257 k\u7779 ara of the inscription indicates rather a universal \u346 aiva orientation, one that includes the uninitiated laity, the pa\'f1c\u257 k\u7779 ara being the sarvas\u257 m\u257 nyamantra, which any devotee can employ: [o\u7747 ] nama\u7717  \u347 iv\u257 ya. \
\
I guess that pa\'f1cat\uc0\u257 ppa =pa\'f1catapa[\u7717 ], which is seen widely in brahmanical and \u346 aiva sources, referring to the ascetic practice on sitting in summer under the hot sun surrounded by four fires.\
\
I guess that pa\'f1camakutta = pa\'f1camaku\uc0\u7789 a, but do not remember having seen this expression and can offer no explanation with confidence. Perhaps it refers to a crown with panels representing the five faces of \u346 iva (the five brahm\u257 \u7751 i), like the maku\u7789 a worn by Buddhist Tantric \u257 c\u257 ryas with five panels, one for each of the Tath\u257 gatas.\
\
Thank you very much for offering to send me Boisselier. I do not have this important book and would be very happy to have a PDF of it. Thank you also for the image of the central image deity Po Klaong Girai (thanks for updating my spelling).\
\
I look forward to seeing your translation of C 214.\
\
Best wishes,\
\
Alexis\
\
________________________________________\
From: Arlo Griffiths [arlo.efeo@gmail.com] On Behalf Of Arlo Griffiths [arlo.griffiths@efeo.net]\
Sent: 22 May 2011 23:33\
To: Alexis Sanderson\
Subject: \uc0\u346 aiva \u256 c\u257 rya\
\
Dear Alexis,\
\
Thank you very much for your quick response. I think the high\
u.s.nii.sa (or mitre?) is a stylistic feature typical of late Camp\uc0\u257 \
sculpture. See the central deity of Po Klaong Girai (= Po Klaung\
Garai) attached hereto. As soon as I am back in Jakarta, I can try to\
send you the large PDF file I have of Boisselier's La statuaire du\
Champa, if that important work is not yet available to you.\
\
Looking again at the text on the back (C. 214, see attachment) in the\
light of your suggestion that the sculpture might represent a \uc0\u346 aiva\
\uc0\u256 c\u257 rya, I now see an opportunity to understand some elements that had\
puzzled me thus far: the repeated pa\'f1ca-compounds. Actually the word\
pa\'f1ca by itself also figures in a few 12th c. Cam language\
inscriptions of the far south of Camp\uc0\u257 , and has thus far defied\
understanding in those contexts. Might there be any continuity with\
the P\uc0\u257 \u347 upata tradition? Or could the same keyword indicate another\
\uc0\u346 aiva tradition?\
\
We have received photographs and a rubbing of C. 214 from the Binh\
Dinh museum. I will try to settle the remaining problems of reading\
and attempt to propose a translation in the coming days, but am unsure\
I will be able to extract much sense from this text.\
\
Warm greetings,\
\
Arlo\
\
}