{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Tahoma;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10500\viewh10800\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \uc0\u346 AIV\u256 C\u256 RYA IMAGES\
\
CAMPA\
	- C. 128\
	- C. 214\
	- uninsribed statue in museum Quang Ngai\
	- uninscribed statue at Hoi An museum\
	- BTLS-HCMV catalogue\
	- Guimet catalogue, item 82.	\
\
\
INDONESIA\
Possible examples:\
	- MNI 301\
	- image from Mangkunagar (Stutterheim 1937) sent by Pauline L-S\
	- two sculptures at Penataran Museum\
\
\
INDIA\
Articles G. Bhattacharya\
	- in GB 2000 (with refs to exx. from Assam)\
	- GB 2007-10\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs26 \cf0 L'Hernault, Fran\'e7oise, avec des collaborations de P.R. Srinivasan et de Jacques Dumar\'e7ay, \
Darasuram: Epigraphical Study, \'c9tude Architecturale, \'c9tude Iconographique. Paris 1987 (M\'e9moires arch\'e9ologiques 16), pp. 20-21, 31-35, dealing with 95 or even 108 (!) inscribed stone panels of \uc0\u346 aiv\u257 c\u257 ryas in this temple (some illustrated in photos 98-100 of \'c9tude Iconographique).
\f0\fs28 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Claudine Bautze-Picron, \'93Lakhi Sarai\'94, fig. 34.\
\
References Sanderson\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf0 1. Two images of P\uc0\u257 \u347 upata Gurus in the N\u299 laka\u7751 \u7789 hamah\u257 deva temple at Arthu\u7751 \u257 , Rajasthan: Meister (ed.), Discourses on \u346 iva (Philadelphia: UPP, 1984), figs. 94 and 95.\
\
2. \'a0An image of the Guru Tribhuvanakart\uc0\u257 rabha\u7789 \u257 ra on the wall of the Lak\u7779 ma\u7751 e\u347 vara temple at \u256 vani in the Kolar district of No\u7735 ambav\u257 \u7693 i, identified by an inscription to his right, wearing an upav\u299 ta, rudr\u257 k\u7779 a, and a bag hanging from his shoulder (for ash): Andrew Cohen, Temple Architecture and Sculpture of the No\u7735 ambas (New Delhi: Manohar, 1998), p. 77\'9679 and plate 65; also fig. 14 in his The King and the Goddess: The No\u7735 amba Period Lak\u7779 ma\u7751 \u275 \u347 vara Temple at Avani, Artibus Asiae 52 (1992), pp. 7\'9624. Tribhuvanakart\u257 ra ruled as the pontiff of \u256 vani for 40 years, dying in 931 (Sanderson, The \u346 aiva Age, p. 270). He was probably a K\u257 lamukha.\
\
3. Several images of K\uc0\u257 lamukha \u256 c\u257 ryas reproduced in Bruno Dagens, Entre Alampur et \u346 r\u299 \u347 ailam (Pondicherry: IFI, 1984), vol. 2, figures 104, 180, 181, 224, 756 ('M\u363 rtidevapa\u7751 \u7693 ita devotee of N\u257 gan\u257 thadeva': in the main shrine of the N\u257 ge\u347 vara temple, Pratakota, with the inscription giving his name on the base [ARE 326 of 1937\'968]), and 860. \
}