{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\vieww10720\viewh12520\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 87\
\
Inscription de Prak\uc0\u257 \u347 adharman sur st\'e8le \'e0 M\u7929  S\u417 n (B 6)\
\
Estampages EFEO n. 164a et 164b, reproduit sur CD. Fig. 2 (p. 40) dans A.V. Schweyer, Les sources \'e9pigraphiques, pp. 36-47 dans P. Baptiste et T. Z\'e9phir (r\'e9ds.), Tr\'e9sors d\'92art du Vietnam. La sculpture du Champa Ve-XVe si\'e8cles. Paris 2005.\
\
Editions: Louis Finot, Notes d'\'e9pigraphie XI: Les inscriptions de Mi-son IV, BEFEO IV (1904), pp. 925-928 [EEPC, pp. 107-110]; Majumdar, pp. 28-31; Golzio, pp. 21-23.\
\
Article AVS on ko\uc0\u347 as.\
\
Finot\'92s edition does not include the punctuation of the original.\
\

\b Text (Arlo Griffiths)
\b0 \
Based on inspection of EFEO n. 164a and 164b.\
\
Face A.\
\
\cf2 [siddham] \cf0 || o\uc0\u7747  nama\u347  \u347 iv\u257 ya \cf2 [siddham]\cf0 \
	[siddham] || ... [siddham]: Finot omits all liminal signs and o\uc0\u7747 . Note the form of the ||. Cf. C. 217 and discussion in ECIC I on [siddham] and in ECIC on this form of ||.\
\

\b (1)
\b0  @ svasti\
	1. Finot omits @ and inserts after svasti a | which is not actually there.\
\
I. [indravajr\uc0\u257 ]\
ya\uc0\u7747  sarvvadev\u257 s s\cf2 a\cf0 sure\uc0\u347 amukhy\u257 \
dhy\uc0\u257 yanti tattattvavida\u347  ca san\cf2 t\cf0 a\uc0\u7717 \

\b (2)
\b0  svastha\uc0\u7717  su\u347 uddha\u7717  paramo vare\u7751 ya\
\uc0\u299 \u347 \u257 nan\u257 thas sa jayaty ajasram\'b7 ||\
\
II. [g\uc0\u299 ti]\

\b (3)
\b0  sm\uc0\u7771 tir api yasya sak\u7771 d api pra\u7751 ipatit\u257 n t\u257 rayaty ap\u257 yebhya\u7717 \

\b (4)
\b0  sa \uc0\u347 r\u299 bhadre\u347 o stu praj\u257 hit\u257 rttha\cf2 \uc0\u7747 \cf0  tath\uc0\u257  prabh\u257 se\u347 a\u7717  ||\
	c. sa \uc0\u347 r\u299 bhadre\u347 o: so \u347 r\u299 bhadre\u347 varo Finot.\
	d. praj\uc0\u257 hit\u257 rtha\cf2 \uc0\u7747 : I do not see the anusv\u257 ra on the estampage.\cf0 \
	d. tath\uc0\u257 : \'93Tath\u257  serait \'e0 supprimer metri caus\u257 ; mais il para\'eet utile pour le sens\'94 (Finot). This statement is based on a misidentification of the stanza as an \u256 ry\u257 .\
\
III. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ]\

\b (5)
\b0  \uc0\u257 nand\u257 mvara\u7779 a\u7789 \u347 ataniyamita\u347 akabh\u363 bhuj\u257 \u7749  gate samaye\

\b (6)
\b0  \uc0\u347 uci\u347 ukladv\cf2 ai\cf0 tadinaprapannasupunarvasuvyaste ||\
\
IV. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ]\

\b (7) 
\b0 si\uc0\u7749 hanivi\u7779 \u7789 asuragurau v\u7771 \u7779 abhopagat\u257 rkkabhaumasomasute\

\b (8)
\b0  saur\uc0\u257 dhy\u257 sitataule me\u7779 \u257 y\u257 t\u257 surendragurau ||\
\
V. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ]\

\b (9)
\b0  upacayak\uc0\u7771 draviv\u257 re yugm\u257 y\u257 topak\u257 ricandramasi\

\b (10) 
\b0 vi\uc0\u347 vamuh\u363 rtt\u257 pann\u257 \u7747  trayoda\u347 \u299 \u7747  n\u257 lik\u257 m abhita\u7717  ||\
\
VI. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ] \

\b (11)
\b0  \uc0\u299 \u347 \u257 ne\u347 varako\u347 a\u7747  sa\u7747 sth\u257 pya yath\u257 vidhi svabhaktiva\u347 \u257 t\'b7\

\b (12)
\b0  (\cf2 \uc0\u347 r\u299 m\u257 n prak\u257 \u347 adharmm\u257 \cf0 ) muku\uc0\u7789 am bhadre\u347 var\u257 y\u257 d\u257 t\'b7 ||\
	c. (\uc0\u347 r\u299 m\u257 n prak\u257 \u347 adharmm\u257 ): [\u347 r\u299 m\u257 n prak\u257 \u347 adharmmo] \'93Lecture restitu\'e9e d'apr\'e8s de simples traces de lettres\'94 Finot. The ending -o in Finot\'92s restitution is based on the wrong understanding, widespread even into recent literature, that the king\'92s name was Prak\u257 \u347 adharma, rather than Prak\u257 \u347 adharman.\
\
Face B.\
\
VII. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ]\

\b (1)
\b0  ko\uc0\u347 amuku\u7789 obhaya\u7747  tat\'b7 k\u299 rttistambhadvayopameyam iva\

\b (2)
\b0  y\uc0\u257 vac candr\u257 dityau t\u257 vad ida\u7747  susthita\u7747  jagati ||\
\
VIII. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ]\

\b (3)
\b0  iti yasya k\uc0\u299 rttir ittha\u7747  sa\u7747 bh\u363 t\u257  labdhabh\u363 mik\u257  sth\u257 ne\

\b (4) 
\b0 sa \uc0\u347 r\u299 prak\u257 \u347 adharmm\u257  camp\u257 k\u7779 o\u7751 \u299 \u347 varo jayati ||\
 \

\b (5)
\b0  api ca\
\
IX. [\uc0\u347 \u257 rd\u363 lavikr\u299 \u7693 ita]\
s\uc0\u363 ryye sminn udaya\u7749 gate himakaro y\u257 ty astam ind\u363 daye\
tasmi\uc0\u7747 \u347  c\u257 stamito ravi\cf2 (\uc0\u7717 )
\b \cf0  (6)
\b0  punar iti pr\uc0\u257 ye\u7751 a lokasthiti\u7717 \
\uc0\u299 \u347 \u257 ne\u347 varako\u347 anirmmala\u347 a\u347 \u299  bhadre\u347 amaulya\u7749 \u347 um\u257 ;m
\b (7)
\b0 s
\b \

\b0 t\uc0\u257 v e\cf2 (vobhaya)\cf0  - ~ \cf2 to \cf0 vihitav\uc0\u257 n vikr\u257 ntavarmm\u257  n\u7771 pa\u7717  \cf2 |\cf0 \
	b. tasmi\uc0\u7747 \u347  c\u257 stam\'b0: tasmi\u7747 \u347 \u257 stam\'b0 Finot, which must be a printing error. The \cf2 stone\cf0  clearly shows -\uc0\u347 c-. \
	c.  a\uc0\u7749 \u347 um\u257 ;ms:  a\u7747 \u347 um\u257 \u7747 s Finot.\
	d. t\uc0\u257 v e\cf2 (vobhaya)\cf0  - ~ \cf2 to \cf0 vi\'b0: t\uc0\u257 v e - ~ ~ - ~ t\u257 bhi\'b0 Finot. Diwakar Acharya proposes
\i  t\uc0\u257 v evobhayam ekato vihitav\u257 n
\i0 .\
\
X. [sragdhar\uc0\u257 ]\
acched\cf2 y\uc0\u257 \cf0 bhedya \uc0\u257 dya\u7717  
\b (8)
\b0  k\uc0\u7779 atam iha sakalan n\u257 \u347 ayann \u257 \u347 rit\u257 n\u257 m\
\uc0\u299 \u347 \u257 no yat k\u7779 at\u257 \u7749 gas svayam ayam avadat\'b7
\b  (9)
\b0  sadbhir \uc0\u257 khyeyam etat\'b7\
\uc0\u299 \u347 \u257 nasy\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0 \uc0\u7779 \u7789 am\u363 rtti\u7717  k\u7779 atam abhila\u7779 ita;m r\u363 pyako\u347 endun\u257 do\

\b (10) 
\b0 r\uc0\u257 j\u257  vikr\u257 ntavarmm\u257  jayati bahumata\u347  ch\u257 dayitv\cf2 ai\cf0 va n\uc0\u257 nya\cf2 \uc0\u7717  |\cf0 \
	c. abhila\uc0\u7779 ita;m: abhila\u7779 ita\u7747  Finot.\
	d. n\uc0\u257 nya\u7717  | n\u257 nya\u7747  Finot.\
\
XI. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ]\
\uc0\u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 nar\u363 pyabhed\cf2 \uc0\u299 \cf0  
\b (11)
\b0  prak\uc0\u257 \u347 adharmm\u257 van\u299 ndra\cf2 k\uc0\u299 rttir iti\cf0 \
........................................ \cf2 bh\uc0\u257 ti sa vir\u363 dibharabhy\u257 di\u7717  ||\cf0 \
	a. \'b0bhed\uc0\u299 : \'b0bhede Finot.\
	\cf2 bcd. All red ak\uc0\u7779 aras were left blank by Finot. Alternative: bh\u257 ti sa vir\u363 dibh(i)r abhy\u257 d[bh]i\u7717 ?\
\
}