{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13960\viewh6100\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C.*PhuYen2 H\'f2a Th\uc0\u7841 nh Inscription\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Th\'e0nh Ph\uc0\u7847 n, email 10/12/2013: \'ab\'a0I send you some photos of the inscriptions in Phu Yen province. This inscription was discovered in 2009 in M\'f2-o village, H\'f2a Th\u7841 nh hamlet, Xu\'e2n C\u7843 nh commune, S\'f4ng C\u7847 u Town, Ph\'fa Y\'ean province. Then, the Department of Culture, Sports and Tourism Ph\'fa Y\'ean decided to move it to the Museum. Now, this inscription is stored at the Museum of Ph\'fa Y\'ean. Code of Museum: BTPTY 2372.\
	The inscription is engraved on stone with size 170cm x 70cm. This stone has two sides have carved the inscription. The Size A carved 9 rows can be read; side B has 8 lines almost damaged very difficult to read. Font size about 3cm. The distance between the lines is about 6cm.\'a0\'bb\
\

\b Text
\b0 \
Read by Arlo Griffiths (10/12/2013) on the basis of photographs of an estampage sent by Th\'e0nh Ph\uc0\u7847 n.\
\
Face A.\

\b (1) 
\b0 || di \uc0\u347 akar\u257 ja 9(7)4
\b \
(2) 
\b0 mad\uc0\u257  pu po\u109 \u771   tana ray\u257  s\u257  driy\'b7
\b \
(3) 
\b0 ya[\cf2 \uc0\u109 \u771 \cf0 ] ma\'b0anan\'b7 y\uc0\u257 \cf2 \uc0\u109 \u771 \cf0  po\cf2 \uc0\u109 \u771 \cf0  ku \uc0\u347 r\u299  parame-
\b \
(4) 
\b0 \uc0\u347 varavarmmadeva dunan\'b7 ya\u7749 \'b7 s\u7771 \u7779 \u7789 apar\cf2 \uc0\u7751 na-
\b \cf0 \
(5) 
\b0 \cf2 ga\cf0  nagara camp\uc0\u257  n\u299 y\'b7 mula\u7749 \'b7 avi\u7717  tr\cf2 a\cf0  dunan\'b7
\b \
(6) 
\b0 mah\uc0\u257 dharmma luvai\u7717  nari ya\u109 \u771  ya do\u7747  pu po\u109 \u771 
\b \
(7) 
\b0 tana ray\uc0\u257  vuka\u109 \u771 n\'b7 avi\u7717  dunan\'b7 k\u257  rajan\'b7 dev\u257 laya
\b \
(8) 
\b0 vih\uc0\u257 ra \u347 \u257 la ku\u7789 \u299  ara\u7751 ya tutv\u257  \cf2 c\cf0 al\'b7 vumvun\'b7 \cf2 t\cf0 ruva\uc0\u7749 \'b7
\b \
(9) 
\b0 \uc0\u7749 an\'b7 samasta \cf2 (y\uc0\u257 ga re\u7747 )\cf0  pu\uc0\u7751 ya vuka\u109 \u771 n\'b7 avi\u7717  tra dunan\'b7\
\
Face B.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (1) 
\b0 \cf2 X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
\b \cf0 \
(2) 
\b0 \cf2 ye\uc0\u109 \u771  ucyas\u257 \cf0 tra\cf2 \uc0\u7749 a\cf0  nan\'b7 X X X X X \cf2 \uc0\u7751 \u7789 ha
\b \cf0 \
(3) 
\b0 \cf2 raka\uc0\u109 \u771  X X bh\u257 vva dh\u299 luv\'b7 n\u257 k\u257  je X X X X
\b \cf0 \
(4) 
\b0 \cf2 X\uc0\u7749 ya\u7717  v\u257 m\u363 \cf3  dh\uc0\u299 luv\'b7 \cf2 s\uc0\u257 \cf3 la\cf2 \uc0\u7749 a lav\'b7 na tra\cf3  ma\cf2 d\uc0\u257  X
\b \cf0 \
(5) 
\b0 \cf2 X
\b \cf0  
\b0 v\uc0\u257 la dunan\'b7 k\u257  v\u257  vala udy\u257 na \cf2 tal(v)aga\cf0  n\uc0\u299 y\'b7 ma\u109 \u771 -
\b \
(6) 
\b0 n\'b7 suhetu ra mvo\uc0\u7717  s(th)\u257 na n(\u299 )y(\'b7) \cf2 s\uc0\u257 \u7749 anak\u257 ndh\u257 ra tday\'b7
\b \cf0 \
(7) 
\b0 \cf2 si je\uc0\u109 \u771  rakac\'b7\cf0  drava\uc0\u7749 \'b7 n\u299 y\'b7 pyau\u7717  kara\u7751 a \cf2 upan\uc0\u299 vaya
\b \cf0 \
(8) 
\b0 \cf2 dopagabh\uc0\u257 va ...
\b \cf0 \
\
Notes
\b0 \
A3. ya[\uc0\u109 \u771 ] ma\'b0anan\'b7: restored by comparison with C. 139, ll. 1\'962: niy\'b7 kanadh\u257  kuv\'b7 pu pov\'b7 tana ray\u257  ya\u7749 \'b7 ma\'b0anan\'b7\
A7\'968. Cf. C. 13, C 2: ra v\uc0\u257  nau vu\u7717  di rada\u109 \u771 n\'b7 dev\u257 laya vih\u257 ra ku\u7789 \u299  \u347 \u257 la ara\u7751 y\u257 \u347 rayakara\u7751 a; C. 94, A 2\'963: ~nu pali\u7749 yak ruma\u7717  y\u257 \u109 \u771  vih\u257 ra \u347 \u257 la ku\cf2 \uc0\u7789 t\cf0 \uc0\u299  ara\u7751 ya; C. 94, B 15: ra puna\u7717  \u347 \u257 la ku\u7789 \u299  ara\u7751 ya di dada\u109 \u771 n\'b7 pram\u257 \u7751 a;  \
A8. vumvun: cf. vumvo\uc0\u7749 , in other inscriptions?\
A8. tutv\uc0\u257 : cf. C. 94, B 16: ra pa a\u7749 gap\'b7 \u347 \u257 la ra pa a\u7749 gap\'b7 tutv\u257 .\
A8. truva\uc0\u7749 : cf. C. 92, A 12 travau\u7749 ?\
}