{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13600\viewh12220\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 81\
\
Inscription sur st\'e8le (B 1) \'e0 My-so'n de Vikr\uc0\u257 ntavarman \u299 \
\
Estampage EFEO n. 165, reproduit sur CD.\
\
Editions: Louis Finot, \'93Notes d\'92\'e9pigraphie XI: Les inscriptions de Mi-so'n\
VI\'94, BEFEO IV (1904), pp. 928-929 [EEPC, pp. 110-111]; Majumdar, pp. 37-38; Golzio, pp. 25-26.\
\
Face A.\
o\uc0\u7747  nama\u347  \u347 iv\u257 ya	.... \

\b (12)
\b0  camp\uc0\u257  .... r\u257 jyalak\u7779 m\u299  r\u257 ja ...\
\
Face B.\

\b (1)
\b0  \cf2 tena\cf0  camp\uc0\u257 puraparame\u347 var\cf2 ena\cf0  \cf2 mah\uc0\u257 \cf0 r\uc0\u257 j\u257 dhir\u257 j\cf2 ena\cf0  ...\

\b (2)
\b0  ... \uc0\u347 r\u299 prak\u257 \u347 adharmm\cf2 a\cf0 \uc0\u7751 \cf2 (\uc0\u257 )\cf0  k\uc0\u7771 taprati\u7779 \u7789 h\cf2 \uc0\u257 \cf0  ...\

\b (3)
\b0  ... \uc0\u347 r\u299 prak\u257 \u347 adharmma\

\b \cf2 (4)
\b0  \uc0\u7751 \u257  ... ka\u347 a\u7779 \u7789 apn\u299 ni\u347 cita me mata\

\b (5)
\b0  ... jn\uc0\u257 pa ...\cf0 \

\b (6)
\b0  ... \uc0\u347 r\u299  prak\u257 \u347 adharmma ...\

\b (7)
\b0  ... \uc0\u347 r\u299  ga\u7749 ge\u347 varava\u7749 \u347 aja\u7717  ... \

\b \cf2 (8)
\b0  ...\

\b (9)
\b0  ...\cf0 \

\b (10)
\b0  ... \uc0\u347 r\u299  vikr\u257 ntavarmmamah\u257 r\u257 j\u257 dhi-\

\b (11) 
\b0 r\uc0\u257 ja ... vikr\u257 -\

\b (12) 
\b0 ntavarmman\uc0\u7771 pa\u347  \u347 r\u299 yoge\u347 varar\u257 jas\u363 nu\u347 a\u347 ino naptre ...\

\b (13)
\b0  maku\uc0\u7789 ako\u347 amukh\u257 la\u7749 k\u7771 ta\u7747  \cf2 \uc0\u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 ne\u347 a\u347 ubhe\cf0  ... \

\b (14)
\b0  \uc0\u347 akapatisamaye \cf2 bhuvana\cf0 r\uc0\u257 marasais \cf2 samupagate \cf0 ph\uc0\u257 lguna\u347 ukla ...\

\b \cf2 (15)
\b0  ...\cf0 \
	B1. ... camp\uc0\u257 puraparame\u347 vara ... r\u257 j\u257 dhir\u257 ja ... Finot.\
	B2. ... \uc0\u347 r\u299 prak\u257 \u347 adharmma ... Finot.\
	B13. maku\uc0\u7789 ako\u347 a ... \u257 la\u7749 k\u7771 ta\u7747  ... Finot.\
	B14. \uc0\u347 akapatisamaye ... r\u257 marasais ... ph\u257 lguna\u347 ukla ... Finot.\
	\
Face C.\

\b (1)
\b0  nama\uc0\u347  \u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 ne\u347 vara\u347 r\u299 [bhadre\u347 va-]\

\b (2)
\b0  ra\uc0\u347 r\u299 prabh\u257 se\u347 vara\u347 r\u299 v\u257 -\

\b (3)
\b0  [ma]bh\uc0\u363 te\u347 varebhyo bhagavadbhya(\u7717 )\

\b (4) 
\b0 hemarajata\cf2 (v)adal\cf0 \uc0\u257 ha-\

\b (5)
\b0  tagudatanduladh\uc0\u257 ny\u257 (ka-)\

\b (6)
\b0  r\uc0\u257 d\u257 n\u257 ni sako\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 g\u257 rak\u7779 e-\

\b (7)
\b0  tr\uc0\u257 \u7751 i h\u7771 t\u257 ny u(c)it\u257 ny anucit\u257 -\

\b (8) 
\b0 ni v\uc0\u257 nyan\u7771 patibh[i]r bbhukt\u257 ni\cf2  \cf0 sarddh\uc0\u257 -\

\b (9)
\b0  \uc0\u7751 i \u347 r\u299  bhadravarmm\u257  \u347 r\u299 rudravarmma\u7751 \u257 \

\b (10)
\b0  saha puna\uc0\u7717  pr\u257 d\u257 d iti ||\cf2  api\cf0 \

\b (11)
\b0  t\uc0\u257 ni ye n\u257 \u347 ayanti v\u257  p\u257 la-\

\b (12)
\b0  yanti v\uc0\u257  te\u7779 \u257 \u7747  phala\'f1 ca \u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 -\

\b (13) 
\b0 n[e]\uc0\u347 \u257 daya \u299 \u347 var\u257  j\u257 nanti \cf2 [fleuron]\
\
\cf0 	1. \uc0\u347 r\u299 [bhadre\u347 va-]: \u347 r\u299  ... Finot.\
	3. bhagavadbhya(\uc0\u7717 ): Finot omits this word without any indication of ellipsis.\
	5-8. Finot did not read these lines at all.\
		5. \'b0gudatandula\'b0: read \'b0gu\uc0\u7693 ata\u7751 \u7693 ula\'b0.\
		5-6. \'b0\uc0\u257 (ka)r\u257 d\u257 n\u257 ni: cf. C. 66, face C, st. I 
\i [r\uc0\u257 ]j\'f1o na tv \u257 kar\u257 d\u257 n\u257 d bhik\u7779 usa\u7749 gha[prayo]janam
\i0 ; st. III na 
\i r\uc0\u257 j\'f1a\u7717  paribhog\u257 rtho n\u257 kar\u257 d\u257 nasantati\u7717 
\i0 .\
	9. \'b0varmm\uc0\u257  \u347 r\u299 rudravarmma\u7751 \u257 : \'b0varmma \u347 r\u299 rudravarmma ... Finot.\
	11. api: omitted by Finot.\cf2 \
\cf0 	12-13. \uc0\u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 n[e]\u347 \u257 daya \u299 \u347 var\u257 : \u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 nan\u257 thabhadre\u347 var\u257  Finot. Cf. C. 74 B, l. 8: 
\i \uc0\u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 ne\u347 \u257 dideva
\i0 \'b0.\
\

\b Translation
\b0 \
A. Homage to \uc0\u346 iva! ... Camp\u257  ... royal fortune ... king.\
\
B. By that great lord of the city of Camp\uc0\u257 , overlord of great kings ... \u346 r\u299  Prak\u257 \u347 adharman, a foundation was made ... \u346 r\u299  Prak\u257 \u347 adharman ... \u346 r\u299  Prak\u257 \u347 adharman ... born in the lineage of \u346 r\u299  Ga\u7749 ge\u347 vara ... The overlord of great kings Vikr\u257 ntavarman ... king Vikr\u257 ntavarman, to the grandson of \u346 r\u299  Yoge\u347 vara\'92s soon, who was a moon ... [a 
\i li\uc0\u7749 ga
\i0 ] adorned with a crown, a sheath and a face, \uc0\u346 r\u299  \u298 \u347 \u257 ne\u347 a ... when the era of the \u346 aka Kings had reached (3) worlds, (3) R\u257 mas, (6) flavors, in the waxing fortnight of Ph\u257 lguna ...\
\
c, 1\'963. Homage to the lords \uc0\u346 r\u299  \u298 \u347 \u257 ne\u347 vara, \u346 r\u299  Bhadre\u347 vara, \u346 r\u299  Prabh\u257 se\u347 vara and \u346 r\u299  V\u257 mabh\u363 te\u347 vara!\
c, 4\'9610. \uc0\u346 r\u299  Bhadravarman, together with \u346 r\u299  Rudravarman, has given back the gold, silver, 
\i vadala
\i0  (?), cloth, molasses, grains, and exemption of tax on grains, together with storehouses and fields, which had been taken, whether properly or improperly, and used by other kings, together with the stored crops in them.\
c, 10\'9613. Moreover, the lords \uc0\u346 r\u299 \u347 \u257 na etc. known [the people] who destroy or protect them and their produce!}