{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14880\viewh9720\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 C. 211 Translation\
\
A. \
\
I. ... Rudra, in the Rudra world that is full of excellent qualities, ..., being praised by the unaging Sages, but [praised] by me, he protects the good fortune (or: kingdom?) ...\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 	cf. \uc0\u347 riyam avat\u257 m in A, l. 11.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
II. In the fragrant dust on the lotus feet of you, by whom are cleansed at this (shrine) all people, a prostration by a pious one removes impurity, like that digit of the moon (removes darkness from the night).\
\
III. Like the chest of Smara, praised by the sages, fragrantly stained by the cosmetics (
\i a\uc0\u7749 gar\u257 ga
\i0 ) on (the breasts of) Rati, the pair of feet of Bhuvanaguru (\uc0\u346 iva) shines out, like ... by good ministrations at Pray\u257 ga.\
\
IV. This footprint of M\uc0\u257 dhava, incessantly visited by flowers, a store of rules for worship of the wise ones (
\i sumata
\i0 ), let it offer joy to those who seek joy.\
	footprint: assuming the conjecture cara\uc0\u7751 atalam.\
	sumata: cf. B, st. VI. \
\
V. This footprint of Rudra, fashioned with [decoration in the form of] representations of elephants, horses, men, vases, fans, pots, parasols ... fly-whisks, must protect the wealth of men all around, like the kingdom ... . \
	\cf2 One expects in the first lacuna one of the insignia such as those listed in C. 38, face B, l. 6\'968: tasya sakalako.s.thaagaararajataratnahemakadavakala"sabh.r"ngaararukmada.n.dasitaatapatracaamarahaimagha.taadiparibhogaa varddhamaanaa bhavanti sma. Or C. 24, face B, l. 12\'9613: hemaka.tisuutravalayanuupurakirii.tamanimuktipravaalahaaraadibhuu.sa.na.m rajatakumbhaannabhaajanavyajanaatapatrakadavakala"sacaamara"saraavaadiparibhoga.m.\
\cf0 \
VI. This praise of Rudra ... water mixed with milk ...\
\
B.\
\
I. ... the flower that has sprouted, tied with the tips of the hands.\
\
II. By \uc0\u346 r\u299  Jayasi\u7749 havarman, while he was governing well the earth, were filled the wishes of those who in mind (
\i \uc0\u257 \u347 aya
\i0 ) desire merit, on this (earth) ... to greatness ..., as ... was stretched by Dharmasuta (i.e. Yudhi\uc0\u7779 \u7789 hira) ... originating from ...\
\
III. I believe that it is because of the virtue of him who has made (fame and built roads), that his fame is present even on the opposite shore of the great ocean; that the royal road is a \'91rising\'92 of merit (gained in a previous life) here on earth; all the more so in his own city do these widespread (
\i k\uc0\u299 rti
\i0 s, famous works) of his go out similar to the rays of the Mighty-armed (Sun) in the pitch-darkness!\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 	Alexis Sanderson: \'91\'91I imagine that now that [Jayasi\uc0\u7747 havarman] has fashioned a royal highway on the earth [in the form of] his abundant merit ... his (asya) virtues (gu\u7751 \u257 \u7717 ), spreading out (prak\u299 r\u7751 \u257 \u7717 ), like rays of the sun (dinakar\u257 \u7747 \u347 usam\u257 \u7717 ) in dense darkness (tamondhe), penetrate (y\u257 nti) even to the shore beyond the great ocean. How much more throughout his own city!\'92\'92 I do not know at present how to understand k\u299 rtti\u7747  sthit\u257 m api and wonder how it can be correct. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
IV. May the be fine knowers of Distinction, wholly devoted to \uc0\u346 iva\'92s law. And these are the servants of him who (has a name that) begins with \u346 r\u299  Jayasi\u7747 ha and ends with varman.\
	Alexis Sanderson: May these [i.e. the following] be endowed with great wisdom, devoted to the \uc0\u346 ivadharma, and servants of Jayasi\u7747 havarman' or perhaps to be preferred, though it does not give weight to the ca: 'May the following persons, servants of Jayasi\u7747 havarman, be endowed with great wisdom and devoted to the \u346 ivadharma'\
\
V. \uc0\u346 r\u299 kalpa, adherent of \u346 iva\'92s law, knower of precepts, teacher, was born the first. His grateful younger brother is Am\u7771 tas\u257 rathi, whose desire (
\i \uc0\u257 \u347 aya
\i0 ) was an abundance (
\i anekat\uc0\u257 
\i0 ) of merit. His clever younger brother, reputed to be (
\i kila
\i0 ) reaching fame, was R\uc0\u257 japa\u7751 \u7693 itavibhu. Kamrai\u7749 s\u257 rathi, devotee of \u298 \u347 a, was his younger brother; his younger sister was called M\u257 y.\
\
VI. These siblings, spotless by hosts of virtues, having been paid respect by congregations of those whose wealth consists in virtue (?), well respected (?) for reporting (?) the virtue of their parents, were as many as (?, 
\i adar\uc0\u257 \u7717 
\i0 ) five.\
\
VII. The illustrious Rudrapur\uc0\u299  shines as if it hold victoriousness over the top of the tops (i.e. the highest summit) of Kail\u257 sa. May the illustrious abode of Rudra built there (in Rudrapur\u299 ) by us\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 gratify [the people or Rudra?] very well.\
	\cf2 I adopt here the translation proposed by Yuko Yokochi, who admits that she is not sure of the meaning of dhurdhur, and that interpreting jayat\uc0\u257 m as `the state of being victorious\'92 while taking kailaasadhurddhura~n as an object of jaya in its verbal meaning is unsmooth. My own previous attempt was certainly not better: \'91\u346 r\u299  Rudrapur\u299  shines as though it holds the irrestrainable (
\i dhurdhura = durdhura
\i0 ?) one of Kail\uc0\u257 sa. Let Rudra\'92s abode be victorious! In it, may He rejoice well in what we have supplied and so on\'92 (we read \'b0
\i vihit\uc0\u257 di s\u257 dhu
\i0 ).\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 	Note word-play (
\i yamaka
\i0 ): dhur
\b dhura\'f1 jayat\uc0\u257 m
\b0  / s\uc0\u257 
\b dhu ra\'f1jayat\uc0\u257 m
\b0 .\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 VIII. When the era of the illustrious king of the \uc0\u346 \u257 kas had reached (empty) sky, (2) breasts), (8) bodies (i.e. in 820 \u347 aka), when the moon was in Taurus, ... Ketu having gone to the first house; Venus in Pisces; Sagittarius and (?) the Sun; R\u257 hu, collided with Leo, in Libra. ... \u346 r\u299  Mah\u257 rudradeva was established by them, who were full of faith, to pay homage to their own parents.\
\
C.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (1-4)
\b0  ... a complete (fiscal) exemption ... He gave it to \uc0\u346 r\u299  Mah\u257 rudra.\

\b (4-5)
\b0  All these are the rice fields of the venerable Mah\uc0\u257 rudra: \

\b (5-6)
\b0  
\i gasa~mk yop pov
\i0  many
\b  
\b0 ... for the ... in this monastery.\

\b (6-7)
\b0  
\i pov jlet 
\i0 of the enclosure ... he gave ... 
\b \
(7-8) 
\b0 ... gave ... to \uc0\u346 r\u299  Mah\u257 rudra in order to stimulate the true 
\i dharma
\i0 .\cf2 \

\b \cf0 (9-11) 
\b0 ... citadel ... at the time of the gift by his majesty milord \uc0\u346 r\u299  Jayasi\u7747 havarmadeva of all that 
\i pin
\i0 , he gave it to the venerable \uc0\u346 r\u299  Mah\u257 rudr\u257 ...
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
D.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (4-5)
\b0  ... those men of special asceticism too. At the time of 
\i k\uc0\u257 \u7747 mit 
\i0 of the sacrificer ... bring slaves of the god and went to show 
\i anavasta
\i0  of the men ... 
\i k\uc0\u257  a\u7749 gap
\i0  in the rice-fields of the venerable Siniy 
\i kn\uc0\u257 
\i0  which those men of special asceticism had taken from his majesty the lord of the world, overlord of all kings.\
\

\b (5-9) 
\b0 He who knows who is steadfast following the exemption ... the venerable Siniy, following respectively 
\i anatat
\i0  is not ... wealth, namely that sacrificer of the venerable Yojogg\uc0\u257 , his son. ...\
\

\b (10-14)
\b0  ... Those men worship that god. Those men, namely the sacrificer ... 
\i so
\i0  soft families, 
\i so
\i0  all the 
\i dharma
\i0 , one man, two men ... by you a good form, a horrible nature ... we will give the venerable ... this one, this world ...\
\
}