{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red35\green80\blue169;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf2 From: 
\b0 \cf3 Alexis Sanderson <alexis.sanderson@orinst.ox.ac.uk>\

\b \cf2 Date: 
\b0 \cf3 May 18, 2011 3:57:25 AM GMT+07:00\

\b \cf2 To: 
\b0 \cf3 Arlo Griffiths <arlo.griffiths@efeo.net>\

\b \cf2 Subject: \cf3 RE: Epigraphy Symposium Groningen June 2012\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs28 \cf3 Dear Arlo,\
\
I have being considering the Khue Trung inscription. It is quite a mess as it stands and there seem to be numerous problems with the translation also. Here are some comments:\
\
1 gu\uc0\u7751 \u257 \u7693 hye] gu\u7751 a- here gu\u7751 a- means \'91excellent qualities' rather than 'virtues'.\
\
2 sa munibhir ajaradbhi\uc0\u7717  st\u363 yam\u257 no may\u257  tu]. It seems more likely to me that it is the sages who are praising Rudra in Rudraloka.\
\
3 \uc0\u347 riyam avati] Makes no sense in classical Sanskrit. Your 'promotes prosperity' imports a Vedic meaning. I have never seen the root \u8730 av in that sense in the classical language. In ma\u7749 gala verses \'a0it always has the mean \'91protect', appearing in the forms avatu and avat\u257 t. The nearest to *\u347 riyam avati that makes sense in this context is \u347 riyam \u257 vahati, but that it unmetrical.\
\
4 r\uc0\u257 gasurabhimal\u299 masa\u7747  rates smarasya vak\u7779 a iva] The idea here is probably a comparison of the two footprints of Rudra smeared with sandal paste or other unguents placed upon them by the sages when they worship them with the chest of K\u257 ma smeared with the same when transferred to it from the breasts of Rati as a result of their close embrace. The -mal\u299 masa- means not \'91dirt' but 'dirty', though here rather 'stained'. So -r\u257 gasurabhimal\u299 masam I take to mean \'91fragrantly stained by the redness ...'\
\
5 anavaratakusum\uc0\u257 gatam vari\u7751 a\u7717 ] The word vari\u7751 a\u7717  yields no sense. What do you mean by 'the Varin'? Your translation of anavaratakusum\u257 gatam is hard to accept. Are you taking \u257 gatam as a case of bh\u257 ve kta\u7717 : \'91which has a ceaseless coming [to it] of flowers'? That would be very stilted Sanskrit. I am suspicious of the text here.\
\
6 gajav\uc0\u257 jipuru\u7779 akala\u347 avyajanagha\u7789 acchatra..c\u257 mar\u257 k\u7771 tiracitam rudrasya padadvyam idam] I take this to mean 'these two feet of Rudra fashioned with [decoration in the form of] representations of elephants, horses, men, vases, fans, pots, parasols, ... and chowries''.\
\
7 prap\uc0\u363 rit\u257 \u347 ] I expect that the lacuna contained the word \u257 \u347 \u257 \u7717  or similar.\
\
8 surak\uc0\u7779 at\u257 ] Surely instrumental singular with \u347 r\u299 jayasi\u7747 havarma\u7751 \u257  with jagat\u299 m \'91while protecting the earth], i.e. while ruling as king.\
\
9 dharmmasute +] dharmasutena? dharmasuta\uc0\u7717  = Yudhi\u7779 \u7789 hira\
\
10 manye gu\uc0\u7751 \u257 d inakar\u257 \u7747 \u347 usam\u257 s] Read manye gu\u7751 \u257  dinakar\u257 \u7747 \u347 usam\u257 s; and understand the verse as follows: \'91\'91I imagine that now that [Jayasi\u7747 havarman] has fashioned a royal highway on the earth [in the form of] his abundant merit ... his (asya) virtues (gu\u7751 \u257 \u7717 ), spreading out (prak\u299 r\u7751 \u257 \u7717 ), like rays of the sun (dinakar\u257 \u7747 \u347 usam\u257 \u7717 ) in dense darkness (tamondhe), penetrate (y\u257 nti) even to the shore beyond the great ocean. How much more throughout his own city!\'92\'92 I do not know at present how to understand k\u299 rtti\u7747  sthit\u257 m api and wonder how it can be correct. \
\
11 bh\uc0\u363 y\u257 sus] You translate this as \'91there have been many (?)'. It looks as though you are trying to find both a past tense of \u8730 bh\u363  here and bh\u363 y\u257 \u7747 sa\u7717 . This is the 3rd plural parasmaipada benedictive of \u8730 bh\u363 . The verse means, I think: 'May these [i.e. the following] be endowed with great wisdom, devoted to the \u346 ivadharma, and servants of Jayasi\u7747 havarman' or perhaps to be preferred, though it does not give weight to the ca: 'May the following persons, servants of Jayasi\u7747 havarman, be endowed with great wisdom and devoted to the \u346 ivadharma'. At least it is clear that bh\u363 y\u257 sus is benedictive.\
\
12 pu\uc0\u7751 yaikat\u257 n\u257 \u347 aya\u7717 ] The alternative meaning that you suggest \'91destroyer of oneness of merit' is grammatically impossible, unless you are proposing to emend to *pu\u7751 yaikat\u257 n\u257 \u347 aka\u7717 . Even so it would be almost nonsensical. The reading with -\u257 \u347 aya\u7717  gives an entirely coherent and idiomatic expression.\
\
13 k\uc0\u299 rtty\u257 \u347 a\u7717 ] Your translation 'reaching fame' does not work as classical Sanskrit, in which this can mean, in my view, only 'whose [only] hope (\u257 \u347 \u257 ) was [to attain] fame'. I take kila here in the sense of v\u257 rt\u257 , i.e. 'known as K\u299 rty\u257 \u347 a'.\
\
14 kail\uc0\u257 sadhurdhura\'f1] This is a crux, for me at least. I don't think we can read dhurdhura\'f1 as durdhura\'f1 and translate as 'unrestrainable', because I am aware of no word durdhura\u7717  with this meaning in classical Sanskrit. What I am looking for here is something like 'shines as though it were the double of Kail\u257 sa itself'.\
\
15 \uc0\u347 r\u299 rudravasatir asy\u257 m asmadvihit\u257  \'86dis\u257 dhu\'86 ra\'f1jayat\u257 m] I am strongly inclined to divide the syllables like this and to take asy\u257 m to refer to Rudrapur\u299  rather than the rudravasati\u7717 . As I understand it, then, we have ''Rudrapur\u299  shines as though it has the *.... (?) of Kail\u257 sa. May this temple of Rudra built by us within it delight ....''. \
\
Yours,\
\
Alexis\
\
\
________________________________________\
From: Arlo Griffiths [arlo.efeo@gmail.com] On Behalf Of Arlo Griffiths [arlo.griffiths@efeo.net]\
Sent: 17 May 2011 15:27\
To: Alexis Sanderson\
Subject: Re: Epigraphy Symposium Groningen June 2012\
\
Dear Alexis,\
\
Thank you very much. Alright, I will try to proceed in the manner that\
you prefer.\
\
I eagerly but patiently await any possible suggestions for the \uc0\u346 aiva\
inscription of Khue Trung (C. 211).\
\
Warm greetings,\
\
Arlo\
\
On May 15, 2011, at 7:27 PM, Alexis Sanderson wrote:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf4 Dear Arlo,\
\
I don't object to your using the notes on inscriptions from Camp\uc0\u257 \
that I shared with you. I hope to use these materials myself at some\
point, but I see no reason why you should not do so now since I am\
sure that you will indeed acknowledge me appropriately. On the whole\
in such cases I prefer to be quoted verbatim and then to be given\
the opportunity to check that I have been quoted correctly and to\
remove any errors there might be in my notes: they were very much\
spontaneous annotations as I read through and copied inscriptions\
and have not been carefully checked and revised.\
\
I am very glad to learn that you are involved in a project to\
publish a catalogue of the Da Nang library's inscriptions and that\
it will be out before long. I look forward to seeing.\
\
I am also pleased to receive your edition and translation of this\
\uc0\u346 aiva inscription. I will turn my attention to it as soon as another\
task is finished, perhaps later today.\
\
All the best,\
\
Alexis\
\
\
________________________________________\
From: Arlo Griffiths [arlo.efeo@gmail.com] On Behalf Of Arlo\
Griffiths [arlo.griffiths@efeo.net]\
Sent: 14 May 2011 03:15\
To: Alexis Sanderson\
Cc: N.Mirnig\
Subject: Fwd: Epigraphy Symposium Groningen June 2012\
\
Dear Alexis,\
\
I hope this finds you well! Regarding Nina's kind message below, I\
had told her when I earlier supplied her a list of topics I could\
possibly talk about, that a discussion of early \uc0\u346 aiva material in\
the Camp\uc0\u257  corpus would have to build on the notes you sent me\
several years ago and would hence require your permission. My\
research in recent years has led to the discovery of a few new\
inscriptions relevant to this enquiry, which I would of course seek\
to exploit, but the bulk of the material was known to you when you\
compiled your notes. Not yet having started to compile anything in\
the form of a publishable/presentable paper, I do not yet know\
precisely how and how much I will need to make use of your material.\
I would naturally try to make as clear as possible to what extent I\
do rely on your work. Under these conditions, do you allow me to go\
ahead and accept Nina's invitation to speak on this topic?\
\
In this connection, may I ask you whether you can do anything to\
help fill in the lacunae in the Sanskrit parts of this new, very\
\uc0\u346 aiva, inscription (C. 211) that has unfortunately suffered quite a\
bit of damage? I also attach, with some trepidation, the very rough-\
and-ready provisional translation of those parts that I tried to\
produce last week, in preparation for my upcoming visit (next\
Tuesday) to the museum in Da Nang which holds this stone. (I am\
involved in the production of a catalogue of the inscriptions of\
this museum which is due to appear at the end of 2012.) You will see\
that I haven't understood much. I am not sure to what extent this is\
due to hastiness and the limitations of my own competence, on the\
one hand, and the limitations of competence of the late 10th century\
scholar how composed this text, on the other.\
\
Warm greetings from Hanoi,\
\
Arlo\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 \
}