{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16580\viewh11060\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 210\
\
Inscription of H\'f2n \uc0\u272 \u7887 \
\
A.\
\
I.  That king \uc0\u346 r\u299  Parame\u347 vara\'92s sister\'92s son, simply called  \u346 r\u299  Yuvar\u257 ja, endowed with good qualities, whose foremost zeal in action (
\i aadikarmodyama
\i0 ) is for full deliverance (
\i sup.rthagbhaava
\i0 ), who organizes a variety of donations, sacrifices and festivals \'97 he furthermore attains levels in the auspicious yoga that resides in \uc0\u346 iva, and beyond that the Self, in his mind characterized [only] by Sat[tva].\
\
Cf. C. 120, st. III:\
	raajas "srii parame"svarasya mahata.h putro nujaayaa jayii\
	tyaagii "siilagu.naanvitas sutanumaansasvaapateyo mahaan |\
	"suddhendudyutivadya"sobhi(2)r ani"sa.m pradyotitaa"so ra.ne\
	daane "suurataro raraaja satata.m "sriidevaraajodbhutam ||\
This proves that the unusual expression bhraatriisutas in our stanza must mean \'91sister\'92s son\'92. sadgu.nii is not a name but an adjective: cf. "siilagu.naanvitas in the stanza just quoted, and gu.nakovida.h in C. 120, st. I.\
	The opening of the Cham portion stresses the protagonist\'92s religious zeal, and I supposed that the force in sup.rthagbhaava is in su, so that this compound, not attested elsewhere, may mean the same as kaivalya: \'91a 
\i good
\i0  form of distinction (between soul and god)\'92. The compound p.rthagbhaava itself is attested frequently to express an undesired state of failed realisation on the part of the yogin.\
MBh \
	12,224.059a karmajo 'ya.m p.rthagbhaavo dva.mdvayukto viyogina.h\
 	12,224.059c aatmasiddhis tu vij~naataa jahaati praaya"so balam\
 	14,048.009a aahur eke ca vidvaa.mso ye j~naane suprati.s.thitaa.h\
   	14,048.009c k.setraj~nasattvayor aikyam ity etan nopapadyate\
   	14,048.010a p.rthagbhuutas tato nityam ity etad avicaaritam\
   	14,048.010c p.rthagbhaava"s ca vij~neya.h sahaja"s caapi tattvata.h\
MarkP_40.40 //   pare.na brahma.naa tadvat praapyaikya.m dagdhakilvi.sa.h /\
   yogii yaati p.rthagbhaava.m na kadaacinmahiipate ! // \
   \
\
II. When the \uc0\u346 aka-king was connected with (2) hands, (7) mountains and (9) orifices (i.e. in 972 \u346 aka), that excellent one properly installed a stable li\u7749 ga, made of stone, for glory.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf2 sustham: AVS refers to C. 120, l. 3 svastham. The whole stanza (III) in question is in fact very similar: \
	ku"sa"sailaguhaayukte "sakakaale "silaatmakam |\
	li"nga.m svalpa(3)m api svastha.m sthaapitan tena kiirttaye ||\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
B.\
\
(1) Il y a un prince ;Srii Dauphin, grand g\'e9n\'e9ral, neveu de sa majest\'e9 Parame;svaravarmadeva. Lui en plus, occup\'e9 seulement par le 
\i dharma
\i0 , il \'e9tait en train d\'92effectuer ces donations m\'e9ritoires\
\
\
\
Notes\

\i kumvan
\i0 : traduit \'ab neveu \'bb par Finot dans les cas de C. 82, 89, 120 toujours sans note. Il semble rapprocher le cam moderne kamvuon (A&C p. 62). Le parall\'e8le bhraatriisuta dans la stance I confirme ce rapprochement. V\'e9rifier si d\'92autres portions sanskrites avaient \'e9t\'e9 utilis\'e9es par Finot.\
\
dunan (ou du nan): cf. dinan, A&C face p. 221.\
\
kevaladharma: cf. sup.rthagbhaava dans la st. I.\
\
dauk rajan: C. 90 D, dauk ra(4)jan pu.nya k~an du nan sadaakaala ||\
\
ka~mn: cf. face \'e0 A&C p. 55; EEPC, p. XXII, donne une glose toute diff\'e9rente. Voir notes sous C. 17 et 30 A2.\
\
tu~m: A&C, face \'e0 p. 192}