{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17900\viewh8760\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 210\
\
Inscription of H\'f2n \uc0\u272 \u7887 \
\
Estampage EFEO: n. 1878-1882.\
\
- check Claude Jacques, \'93\'c9pigraphie de l\'92Inde et du Sud-est asiatique\'94, EPHE, IVe section sciences historiques et philologiques, Annuaire 1976/1976, Paris, 1976, p. 948-953. \cf2 DOES HE MENTION ANY C NUMBER?\cf0 \
- referred to as C. 211 by A.V. Schweyer, Les sources \'e9pigraphiques, pp. 36-47 dans P. Baptiste et T. Z\'e9phir (r\'e9ds.), Tr\'e9sors d'art du Vietnam. La sculpture du Champa Ve-XVe si\'e8cles. Paris 2005, who shows as fig. 6 (p. 42) a photo of face A.\
- the text of this inscription has been published by A.-V. Schweyer in her article \'93Les royaumes du pays cam dans la seconde moiti\'e9 du XIe si\'e8cle\'94, P\'e9ninsule 59 (2009), p. 25-34. \cf2 See esp. her note 46 on p. 25.\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Text (Arlo Griffiths and Amandine Lepoutre)
\b0 \
First constituted in October 2009 / February 2010 based on photographs made in 2009, then verified against the estampages made in May 2010. Finally collated with Schweyer 2009, received in September 2010.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 Notes diverses
\i0 \
	- Noter vir\uc0\u257 ma de forme exceptionelle en D, l. 4.\
	- Noter les -\uc0\u257  de forme exceptionelle sur la face D.\
\
A.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (1)
\b0  || @ || svasti || @ || \
\
I. [\uc0\u347 \u257 rd\u363 lavikr\u299 \u7693 ita]\
tasya \uc0\u347 r\u299  parame\u347 varasya n\u7771 
\b (2)
\b0 pater bbhr\uc0\u257 tr\u299 sutas sadgu\u7751 \u299  \
n\uc0\u257 mn\u257  \u347 r\u299  yu
\b (3)
\b0 var\uc0\u257 ja eva sup\u7771 thagbh\u257 v\u257 dikarmmodyama\u7717  \
n\uc0\u257 
\b (4)
\b0 n\uc0\u257 d\u257 namakhotsavas tv api \u347 ive yoge \u347 iva
\b (5)
\b0 \cf2 (sth)[e] \cf0 pad\uc0\u257 ny \
apy \uc0\u257 tm\u257 nam ayan tato dhikataras so 
\b (6)
\b0  \uc0\u347 \cf2 n\cf0 oti sanm\uc0\u257 nase || @ || \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf3 	b. sup\uc0\u7771 thagbh\u257 v\u257 dikarmmodyama\u7717 : sup\u7771 thag bh\u257 v\u257 di karmmo dyama\u7717  AVS.\
	c. n\uc0\u257 n\u257 d\u257 namakhotsavas: n\u257 n\u257 d\u257 namalotsavas AVS (with note indicating that one would have to read mahotsavas; being based on a wrong reading, we may forget this proposal).\
	c. \uc0\u347 iva(sth)[e]: \u347 iva \{1\} AVS.	\
	c-d. pad\uc0\u257 ny apy \u257 tm\u257 nam: sad\u257 nyapy\u257 tm\u257 nam AVS.\
	d. ayan tato: ayantato AVS (with note indicating that one would have to read ayatnata, which is ungrammatical and anyhow unnecessary).\
	d. dhikataras: dhikat[v]a\uc0\u7747  AVS (unmetr.).\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
II. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
kara\uc0\u347 \cf2 e\cf0 lavil\cf2 ai\cf0 r yyu
\b (7)
\b0 kte \uc0\u347 akar\u257 je \u347 il\u257 mayam\'b7 \
li\uc0\u7749 ga\u7747  sustham ara\u7749  k\u299 
\b (8)
\b0 rttyai (s)th\uc0\u257 pay\u257 m \u257 sa so dhika\u7717  || @ ||\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf3 	kara\uc0\u347 elavilair: kara\u347 ailavilair AVS. It is possible that the little stroke below the vocalization of what we read as \u347 e is indeed intended to make it \u347 ai, in which case it would have to be noted how differently the two cases of ai-vocalization in this compound have been written. We prefer to assume the mentioned little stroke is accidental, and to observe the inconsistency of orthography rather than of the shape of signs.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
B.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (1)
\b0  [ma]d\uc0\u257  pu lya~m \u347 r\u299  yuvar\u257 ja mah\u257 sen\u257 pati ya~m-\

\b (2)
\b0  \uc0\u7749 \'b7 kumvan\'b7 y\u257 ~m po ku parame\u347 varavarmmadeva du-\

\b (3)
\b0  (na)n\'b7 tr\uc0\u257  kevaladharmma dauk\'b7 rajan\'b7 pu\u7751 yad\u257 na \u7749 an\'b7\

\b (4)
\b0  hit\uc0\u257 hi(ta)vastu\cf2  \cf0 ka~mn\'b7 bh\uc0\u257 va ni(~m) sad\u257 k\u257 la dunan\'b7 tu~m sarvva\u347 \u257 str\u257 -\

\b (5)
\b0  gama sida\uc0\u7717  \u347 aivasaugatasiddh\u257 ntakul\u257 \cf2 vdhi\cf0 ma dunan\'b7 kevala\

\b (6)
\b0  d(au)k\'b7 rajan\'b7 gurubhakti \uc0\u7749 an\'b7 \u347 ivabhakti maddan\'b7 yogadhy\u257 nasam\u257 -\

\b (7)
\b0  dhi upak\'b7 vela ud\uc0\u257 (s\u299 )na suhetu (du)nan(\'b7) kmai\u7749 \'b7 ya\

\b (8)
\b0  \uc0\u347 a dauk\'b7 palavv\u299 k\'b7 di loka \cf2 (ni~m) (t)ra\

\b \cf0 (9)
\b0  dunan\'b7 makmai~m n\uc0\u299 rvv\u257 \u7751 apada \cf2 (ta/ku) \cf0 ya~m ajar\uc0\u257  mara\u7751 a kaivalya\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf3 	1-2. ya~m\uc0\u7749 \'b7: n\u259 \u7749  AVS.\
	4. bh\uc0\u257 va ni(~m): bh\u257 vani AVS.\
	5. \'b0kul\uc0\u257 vdhima: (kul\u257 gdhima ?) AVS. Read \'b0kul\u257 gama or \'b0kul\u257 vdhimada?\
	7. upak\'b7: ra pak AVS.\
	7. ud\uc0\u257 (s\u299 )na suhetu (du)nan(\'b7) kmai\u7749 \'b7: ra r\u257  \{2\} puho \u7749 a \{2\} kme\u7749  AVS.\
	8. (t)ra: tr\uc0\u257  AVS.\
	9. makmai~m: makm\uc0\u277  AVS.\
	9. n\uc0\u299 rvv\u257 \u7751 apada: n\u299 ivv\u257 \u7751 apada AVS (typing error?).\
	9. (ta/ku) ya~m: kaya AVS.\
	9. ajar\uc0\u257  mara\u7751 a kaivalya: \{1\} j\u257 r\u257 para\u7751 a kevala | AVS.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
C.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (1)
\b0  nirvvik\uc0\u257 ra param\u257 nandana ni\u7779 prapa\'f1ca si je~m dunan\'b7\

\b (2)
\b0  uts\uc0\u257 ha dauk\'b7 di vastu nan\'b7 sad\u257 k\u257 la upak\'b7 vela\

\b (3)
\b0  ud\uc0\u257 s\u299 na s\u257  nimi\u347 am\u257 tra ma~mn\'b7 la o\u7717  suhetu ur\u257 ~m panr\u257 ~m\

\b (4)
\b0  ni~m \'f1u adhama paputau ur\uc0\u257 ~m di nagara ni~m si je~m\cf2  ra \cf0 v\uc0\u257 \

\b (5)
\b0  vala marai mak\'b7 tmuv\'b7 nagara niy\'b7 ni\uc0\u347 \u347 e\u7779 a avi\u7717  ma~mn\'b7\

\b (6)
\b0  ra prati\uc0\u7779 \u7789 h\u257  li\u7749 ga jayastambha dv\u257  niy\'b7 di a-\

\b (7)
\b0  jva\'f1\'b7\cf2  s\cf0 auy\'b7 tra di huluv\'b7 glai \cf2 cny\uc0\u257  \cf0 la-\

\b (8)
\b0  c\'b7 uttarabh\uc0\u257 ga de\u7717  bharuv\'b7 ra vriy\'b7\

\b (9)
\b0  d\uc0\u257 na ka~mn\'b7 br\u257 hma\u7751 a tapasm\u299  bhik\u7779 u\

\b (10)
\b0  \uc0\u7749 an\'b7 h\u299 nad\u299 n\u257 n\u257 tha avista\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf3 	1. nirvvik\uc0\u257 raparam\u257 nandana:  (nirvvit\u257  ra pamo)nandana AVS.\
	3. ud\uc0\u257 s\u299 na s\u257 : \{1\}d\u257 s\u299 na ha AVS.\
	9. tapasm\uc0\u299 : tapasv\u299  AVS. The intended meaning is no doubt tapasv\u299 , but the stone clearly reads tapasm\u299 .\
	9. bhik\uc0\u7779 u: bhiksu AVS.\
	10. h\uc0\u299 nad\u299 n\u257 n\u257 tha: hinad\u299 n\u257 n\u257 ta AVS.\
	10. Inspection of the stone shows that no sign is missing at the beginning of this lign, but that an irregularity of the stone explains the shift of the margin.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
D.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 (1)
\b0  bharuv\'b7 ra vrok\'b7 nau vijai\

\b (2)
\b0  di hur\cf2 i\cf0 y\'b7 saplu\uc0\u7717  dv\u257  kla\u7747  vul\u257 n\'b7 p\u257 -\

\b (3)
\b0  k\'b7 di \uc0\u347 akar\u257 ja 972 k\u257 la ra prati-\

\b (4)
\b0  \uc0\u7779 \u7789 h\u257  li\u7749 ga niy\'b7 || @ || nan\'b7\cf2 vvana\cf0  \uc0\u347 r\u299  yuva-\

\b (5)
\b0  r\uc0\u257 ja \cf2 s\uc0\u257 na \cf0 ya mah\uc0\u257 sen\u257 pat\cf2 i\cf0  k\uc0\u257 la na[n_]\

\b (6)
\b0  \uc0\u7749 an\'b7 h\u7771  r\u363 pa suk\u363 la ty\u257 ga\cf2  \cf0 karu\uc0\u7751 \u257 \cf2  pa-\cf0 \

\b (7)
\b0  \cf2 \{2\} pi \{1\}\cf0  yogadhy\uc0\u257 nasam\u257 dhi \cf2 \uc0\u347 \cf0 ila-\

\b (8)
\b0  \cf2 pa\uc0\u7717   | k\u257 la ri phap\'b7 \cf0 dri~m \uc0\u7749 a\cf2 n\'b7\cf0 \

\b (9)
\b0  \cf2 ma ... vyal\uc0\u299  ya\u347 a \{1\}raive \cf0 bo-\

\b (10)
\b0  dhi\cf2 sa(t)[v]a na ma~mn\cf0 \'b7 [||] @ ||\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf3 	1. vijai: vije AVS.\
	3. 972: 279 AVS. The fact that AVS misrepresents the order of the numbers also in her edition of C. 156 in the same article suggests this is no accident. \
	3-4. prati\uc0\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 : prati\u7779 \u7789 \u257  AVS.\
	4. nan\'b7vvana: nanvvan AVS. The word navvan occurs several times in the corpus. We seem to have a spelling mistake for that word.\
	5. s\uc0\u257 na ya:  s\u257 naya AVS.\
	5. mah\uc0\u257 sen\u257 pati: mah\u257 sen\u257 pat\u299  AVS.\
	5-6. na[n_] \uc0\u7749 an\'b7 h\u7771  r\u363 pa suk\u363 la: na \{4\} pa su k\u363 la AVS. Understand h\u7771  as hr\u299 , suk\u363 la as sukula.\
	6. ty\uc0\u257 ga karu\u7751 \u257  pa-: ty\u257 ga \{5\} AVS.\
	7. \{2\} pi \{1\}: ra.i si \{1\} AVS.\
	7-8. \uc0\u347 ilapa\u7717  | k\u257 la: sila \{3\} pa \{4\} k\u257 la AVS. Inspection of the stone suggests that no ak\u7779 aras were ever written where AVS supposes lacunae.\
	8. ri phap\'b7 dri~m \uc0\u7749 an\'b7: di \{1\}p\'b7 dr\u301  ........ AVS.\
	9-10. AVS has not read these lines.\
}