{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14240\viewh10620\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 175 (9th-10th c. CE)\
\
Est. EFEO: n. 512 (eight numbered leaves, to be read in the order 3-2-1-8-7-6-5-4).\
\

\b Date and provenance
\b0 \
The dimensions of this 
\b stone
\b0  object are ca. 226 cm in circumference, ca. 36 cm in height. It bears local inventory number \uc0\u272 N 1190 and the label states that its provenance is in Qu\u7843 ng Nam province. According to the inventory, the old Tourane inv. nr. was 
\b 33
\b0 , 16, and its provenance Kh\'e0nh L\uc0\u7877  in B\'ecnh \u272 \u7883 nh province. The only published reference listed for this object in the inventory is BEFEO 28, p.\'a0601, which is the starting page of a 
\i Chronique
\i0  report on a survey of the Kh\'e0nh L\uc0\u7877  site. In the list of \'93briques et poteries sculpt\'e9es extraites des fouilles dont nous avons fait transporter plusieurs exemplaires, parmi les mieux conserv\'e9s, au Mus\'e9e de Tourane\'94, on p. 603, there is mention of \'93Une sorte de courronnement en ogive \'e0 corps de feuilles, bord\'e9, d\'92un d\'e9cor lanc\'e9ol\'e9\'94, 37 cm in height. This seems to be the object C\'9cd\'e8s intended with his reference to BEFEO 28, p. 601, although 
\i sauf erreur de ma part
\i0  the list of objects removed from the Kh\'e0nh L\uc0\u7877  site was a list of 
\b brick 
\b0 artefacts. I don\'92t know how to explain the disagreement about the provenance. The script resembles that seen in Qu\uc0\u7843 ng Nam inscriptions of the 9th-10th centuries; there is no other epigraphy in B\'ecnh \u272 \u7883 nh at that time, but the Kh\'e0nh L\u7877  material as a whole is noticeably different from other sites in that area.\
\

\b Text (read by Arlo Griffiths directly from the object on 3/12/2010)\

\b0 \
@ o\uc0\u7747  \
jaimani\'f1 ca samanta\'f1 ca vai\uc0\u347 amp\u257 yanam eva ca |\
yatra n\uc0\u257 m\u257 ni likhit\u257 ni na tatr\u257 \u347 avip\u257 tana\u7747  \
sv\uc0\u257 ha\u7717  ||-\
\
Enclosed between the mantrifying elements 
\i o\uc0\u7747 
\i0  and 
\i sv\uc0\u257 ha\u7717 
\i0  (for 
\i sv\uc0\u257 h\u257 
\i0 ), is a not entirely successful anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh-stanza, which is not only metrically deficient but also grammatically unconstruable, although the meaning is clear: \'93Om! Wherever the names Jaimani, Sumantu and Vai\u347 amp\u257 yana have been written, there nothing evil will occur. Hail!\'94 This translation implies at least four small emendations:\
	- samanta\'f1 > sumantu\'f1\
	- tatr\uc0\u257 \u347 avip\u257 tana\u7747  >  tatr\u257 \u347 ivap\u257 tana\u7747 \
	- sv\uc0\u257 ha\u7717  > sv\u257 h\u257 \
Cf. the equally undated by probably roughly contemporary Khmer inscription K. 895: 
\i jaimini, sumantu, vai\uc0\u347 a\u7747 p\u257 yana
\i0 .}