{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red251\green0\blue7;\red25\green60\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;
\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;\cssrgb\c12594\c35385\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15160\viewh14640\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 C. 142\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Stela of 
\f1 H\'f3a Qu\'ea\'a0\
\
BTLS-VN 
\f0 LSb 21184 (
\f2\b B\'a02
\f0\b0 , 29)\
\
Estampage EFEO: n. 157.  Figs. 32-35 in BEFEO XI. Photo of face A p. 22 in Takashima & Sawada.\
\
References: Edouard Huber, \'93L\'92\'e9pigraphie de la dynastie de Dong-duong. 6). La st\'e8le de Hoa-Que\'94, BEFEO XI (1911), pp. 285-298 [EEPC, pp. 259-272]; Majumdar, pp. 111-121; Golzio, pp. 97-106; text and Japanese translation of face A, Takashima & Sawada, no. 4, pp. 23-26.\
\

\f2\b Text (Arlo Griffiths & Amandine Lepoutre)
\f0\b0 \
Read from stone and estampage in December 2010 and March 2012. None of the \'95 punctuation signs were noted by Huber in the Sanskrit parts, and in the Cam parts he represents them inconsistently by various punctuation signs. Huber\'92s line numbering on faces c and d does not take into account the lines on the top parts of these lateral faces, and we have therefore been obliged to modify the line numbering.\
\
Reading on stone by Salom\'e9 Pichon in June 2022. \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\cf3 	Inconsistency shape of 
\f1 \uc0\u7749 
\f0 ga\
	Inconsistency of sandhi -n n- vs. -\uc0\u7745  n-\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Face A.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf4 @||\cf0  Om\uc0\u784  nama\u347  \u347 iv\u257 ya \cf4 ||@\
	% \cf0 \uc0\u347 (i/\u299 )v\u257 ya: \u347 iv\u257 ya (sapi).\
\
[svasti]\
	This element, of which Huber was still able to discern the subscript 
\f3\i t
\f0\i0 , is now entirely effaced.\
\
I. [sragdhar\uc0\u257 ]\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 (1)
\f0\b0  [n\uc0\u257 ](n\u257 r\u363 p\u257 )\u7751 i yasy\u257 khilajagaduditai\u347 varyyasa\u7745 bh\u257 vit\u257 ni \'95\
ksiptak\uc0\u7779 o\u7751 \u299 dur\u257 tmaprabhr\u805 tibhayata(m\u257 \u7745 s\u299 ddhatej\u257 \u7745 si nitya
\f2\b (2)
\f0\b0 m)[\'b7 \'95] \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf3 p\uc0\u363 rvv\u257 \cf0 prakhy\uc0\u257 tayog\u257 navasitamahim\u257 li\u7749 git\u257 \u7749 gai\u7717  prak\u257 ma\u7745  \'95\
namyastuty\uc0\u257 ni santu tribhuvanavasat\u257 \u7745  bho hi li\u7749 g\u257 ni bh\u363 tyai ||\
	b. \'b0ta(m\uc0\u257 \u7745 s\u299 ddhatej\u257 \u7745 si nityam)[\'b7 \'95] : all of this was still vaguely legible on the estampage, but the stone itself is currently so damaged that nothing more can be read after 
\f3\i ddha
\f0\i0  on l. 1, and the first few signs of l. 2 are presently also too weathered to be read.\
	% sapi: the beggining the end of l. 1-2 are too damaged to read.\
	c. p\uc0\u363 rvv\u257 pra\'b0: p\u363 rvvapra\'b0 Huber, but the estampage seems to show 
\f3\i rvv\uc0\u257 
\f0\i0 , unless the apparent 
\f3\i \uc0\u257 
\f0\i0  is actually an ornamental continuation of the
\f3\i  r 
\f0\i0 in 
\f3\i pra
\f0\i0 .\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
II. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
An\uc0\u257 dimaddhya
\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0 nidhana\uc0\u7745  \'95 li\u7749 ga\u7745  yasya pur\u257 tanam\'b7 \'95\
sarvvalokapra\uc0\u347 \u257 nty \u257 s\u299 (\'95)c car\u257 caranamaskr\u805 tam\'b7 ||\
\
III. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
yalli\uc0\u7749 gena jita\u7745  \u347 a\u347 va(\'95)d bh\u257 v\u257 n\u257 \u7745  hitadh\u257 ri\u7751 \u257  \'95\
s\uc0\u257 dhak\u257 n\u257 
\f2\b (4)
\f0\b0 \'f1 ca mok\uc0\u7779 atva\u7745  \'95 dadat\u257  hetun\u257  vin\u257  ||\
\
IV. [vasantatilaka]\
\uc0\u256 k\u257 \u347 ama\u7751 \u7693 alam at\u299 tya mah\u299 m aneka\'95-\
bh\uc0\u363 t\u257 dhik\u257 rapariv\u257 ritama\u7751 \u7693 al\u257 (bha)\u7717  \'95\
yalli\uc0\u7749 gam indudina
\f2\b (5)
\f0\b0 kr\uc0\u805 dgrahasevit\u257 bha\'95-\
dattakram\uc0\u257 gatasukhodayam a\cf3 t\cf0 ra p\uc0\u257 y\u257 t\'b7 ||\
	b. \'b0ma\uc0\u7751 \u7693 al\u257 (bha)\u7717 : the problematic ak\u7779 ara 
\f3\i prima facie
\f0\i0  looks most like 
\f3\i va
\f0\i0 , but one may assume here a slightly compressed 
\f3\i bha
\f0\i0 .\
	% sapi: on the stone, it really looks like 
\f3\i va
\f0\i0 .\
	\cf3 d. atra: attra? Contrast simple tra in jaitra, l. 7 as well as clear ttr in vettr\uc0\u257  l. 7.\cf0 \
\
V. [vasantatilaka]\
li\uc0\u7749 g\u257 ni yasya sakr\u805 d apy uta ye namanti \'95\
k\uc0\u257 m\u257 n yath\u257  hr\u805 daya
\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0 v\uc0\u299 psupad\u257 l labhante \'95\
te sarvvas\uc0\u257 dhakavi\u347 e\u7779 aga\u7751 astut\u257 \u347  ca \'95\
dev\uc0\u257 laye pi suravat suram\u257 nan\u299 y\u257 \u7717  ||\
	a. There seems to be no \'95 noted at the end of this p\uc0\u257 da.\
	% sapi : on the stone we can read one.\
 \
VI. [vasantatilaka]\
li\uc0\u7749 g\u257 vas\u257 nam atig\u257 \u7693 hata
\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0 man tv adhast\uc0\u257 \'95d\
v\uc0\u257 r\u257 har\u363 pavahat\u257  hari\u7751 \u257 pi jaitram\'b7\
v\uc0\u299 ryye\u7751 a s\u257 dhayitum uttamayogavettr\u257  \'95\
\uc0\u347 aktan na yasya yadani\u7779 \u7789 a
\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0 varapras\uc0\u257 d\u257 t\'b7 ||\
	b. The stone is slightly weathered at the end of the p\uc0\u257 da, and it is not clear whether \'95 was noted.\
\
VII. [vasantatilaka]\
li\uc0\u7749 g\u257 vas\u257 nam anabhij\'f1atayopari\u7779 \u7789 \u257 \'95d\
m\uc0\u257 norjjitena saras\u299 ruhayonin\u257 da\u7717  \'95\
svadhy\uc0\u257 nav\u299 ryyarucire
\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0 \uc0\u7751 a tath\u257 pi vettu\u7745  \'95\
\uc0\u347 akta\u7745  na yasya yadani\u7779 \u7789 avarapras\u257 d\u257 t\'b7 ||\
	b. m\uc0\u257 norjjitena: m\u257 nojjitena Huber. No doubt a slip of the pen.\
\
VIII. [\uc0\u347 \u257 rd\u363 lavikr\u299 \u7693 ita]\
yo vij\'f1\uc0\u257 ya mur\u257 ripadmavaraj\u257 vaj\'f1\u257 nado\u7779 odgati\'95-\
pr\uc0\u257 le
\f2\b (10)
\f0\b0 yaglapit\uc0\u257 nan\u257 mvujanibhau prov\u257 ca v\u257 \u7751 \u299 m im\u257 m\'b7 \'95\
he govindasarojajau kim apara\uc0\u7745  s\u257 ddhv\u257  yuv\u257 bhy\u257 \u7745  man\u257 \'95g\
yadm\uc0\u363 l\u257 gra
\f2\b (11)
\f0\b0 bubhutsay\uc0\u257  mama nati\u7717  kr\u805 ty\u257  mud\u257  n\u257 nyath\u257  ||\
	a. \'b0j\'f1\uc0\u257 na\'b0: j\'f1\u257 na\u7745  (sapi). For now I don\'92t touch anything because of the metric. \
	(\'95): \'95 (sapi).\
	c. ki(m): kim (sapi)\
	d. yadm\uc0\u363 l\u257 gra\'b0: corr. yanm\u363 l\u257 gra\'b0.\
\
IX. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
Iti yasya vaca\uc0\u7717  \u347 l\u257 ghya\u7745  \'95 \u347 rutavantau ca s\u257 d\u257 rau \'95\
mur\uc0\u257 ripadmayon\u299  taunematur yyam anuttaram\'b7 ||\
\
X. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
\uc0\u256 hatur gg\u257 \'f1cayats\u363 ryya\'95prabodhitamukh\u257 mvujau \'95\
tau mah\uc0\u257 n devadevas tva\u7745  \'95 kuryy\u257  yad varam \u257 
\f2\b (13)
\f0\b0 vayo\uc0\u7717  ||\
\
XI. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
Iti yo dar\uc0\u347 ayan maddhya\u7745  \'95 li\u7749 g\u257 d nirggatam \u257 nanam\'b7 \'95\
netratray\uc0\u257 gnicandr\u257 rkka\'95prabh\u257 bh\u257 sitam \u257 sthita\u7717  ||\
	ab. maddhya\uc0\u7745  \'95 li\u7749 g\u257 d: maddhyali\u7749 g\u257 d Huber.\
\
XII. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
tata\uc0\u347  ca dak\u7779 i
\f2\b (14)
\f0\b0 \uc0\u7751 e vrahm\u257  \'95 sa\u7745 sthito v\u257 mato hari\u7717  \'95\
Ity ekatvam imau yena \'95 labhete yadanuj\'f1ay\uc0\u257  ||\
\
XIII. [pr\uc0\u805 thv\u299 ]\
sa Eva bhagav\uc0\u257 nt sur\u257 suragurus ta
\f2\b (15)
\f0\b0 dacchadmah\uc0\u257  \'95\
mahe\uc0\u347 vara Itas tata\u7717  pra\u7751 atap\u257 dapadmadvaya\u7717  \'95\
dvayena rahito mah\uc0\u299 dharasut\u257 dvayo yo jito \'95\
jitottaragu\uc0\u7751 \u257 
\f2\b (16)
\f0\b0 spado bhavad ago nude st\uc0\u257 c ciram\'b7 ||\
	a. bhagav\uc0\u257 nt sur\u257 suragurus: bhagav\u257 n sur\u257 suragurus Huber.\
	b. (\'95): \'95 (sapi).\
	d. nude st\uc0\u257 c: \'92nudost\u257 c Huber, with note \'93Corr. dosth\u257 c\'94. There is clearly no 
\f3\i do
\f0\i0  but 
\f3\i de
\f0\i0 , there is no elision to be marked with an apostrophe, and no correction is necessary for the ak\uc0\u7779 ara 
\f3\i st\uc0\u257 
\f0\i0 .\
\
XIV. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 hubh]\
sa \uc0\u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 ne\u347 varo yatra\cf4  \'95 \cf0 j\uc0\u257 tipu\u7779 \cf4 p\cf0 abhuvi \uc0\u347 riy\u257 \cf4  \'95\cf0 \
sukh\uc0\u257 s\u299 \u7745 no namask\u257 ra\cf4 \'95\cf0 dhan\uc0\u257 n na\u7717  p\u257 
\f2\b (17)
\f0\b0 \cf3 @|\cf0 tu s\uc0\u257 dhvas\u257 t\'b7 \cf3 |@\cf0 \
	\cf4 b.\cf3  \'b0pu\uc0\u7779 ta\'b0: \cf4 \'b0pu\uc0\u7779 pa\'b0.\
	c. \cf0 sukh\uc0\u257 s\u299 no: sukh\u257 s\u299 \u7745 no (sapi).\cf3 \
	\cf4 d.\cf3  @|\cf0 tu s\uc0\u257 dhvas\u257 t\'b7 \cf3 |@: \cf4 @||\cf0 tu s\uc0\u257 dhvas\u257 t\'b7 \cf4 ||@ (sapi). The two @ are symetrical elaborate punctuation signs taking the form of vegetal decoration. \cf0 \
\
Face B.\
\
XV. [pr\uc0\u805 thv\u299 ]\

\f2\b (1)
\f0\b0  ~ - ~ ~ ~ - ~ (j)Vm\uc0\u257  kalikala\u7749 kak\u257 lojjhit\u257  \'95\
mah\uc0\u257 janaga\u7751 apra - ~
\f2\b  (2)
\f0\b0  ~ ~ - sti camp\uc0\u257 hvay\u257 \'95\
vibh\uc0\u363 tiparibhogasampaducit\u257  sutejasvin\u257  \'95\
pur\uc0\u257 \u7751 abhr\u805 gu\u347 \u257 sanena kila rak\u7779 it\u257  yena - [||]  \
	a. (m)\uc0\u257  kali: - ~ ~ Huber.\
	% sapi : (j)Vm\uc0\u257 \
	b. Virtually nothing of the part of this p\uc0\u257 da that stands at the end of line 1 and that was still vaguely legible on the estampage is still legible today.\
	b. st(i): sta Huber.\
	% sapi: sti camp\uc0\u257 hvay\u257 \'95 = a high dot\cf3 \
\cf0 	d. yena - [||]: - ~ (3) - || Huber. The end of this p\uc0\u257 da certainly fell at the end of l. 2, not at the beginning of l. 3 as Huber thought. \
	% sapi: Today, the end of this p\uc0\u257 da is extremely damaged.\cf3 \
\cf0 \
XVI. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ]\

\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u347 r\u299 bhadravarmmanr\u805 patir bbhr\u805 guvarava(\u7745 )\u347 \u257 mvar\u257 mala\u347 a\u347 \u257 \u7749 ka\u7717  \'95\
lok\uc0\u257 \u347 ayakumud\u257 ni sv\u257 karakira\u7751 ai\u7717  prabodhayati ||\
	a. \uc0\u347 a\u347 \u257 \u7749 ka: corr. \'b0\u347 a\u347 \u257 \u7749 ka\u7717 . Huber corrects to \'b0\u347 a\u347 \u257 \u7749 ko. \
	% sapi: In reality, the visarga is written within the letter -\uc0\u7749 . \
\
XVII. [sragdhar\uc0\u257 ]\
tu\uc0\u7749 gatva\u7749 gattura\u7749 ga
\f2\b (4)
\f0\b0 tvaritakharakhuroddhr\uc0\u805 tadh\u363 lipradh\u363 mre \'95\
n\uc0\u257 n\u257 n\u257 r\u257 cadh\u257 r\u257 ru\u7751 arudhiraka\u7751 \u257 \u347 okapu\u7779 p\u257 \u7749 kit\u257 gre \'95\
garjjadr\uc0\u257 jadgajendradhva
\f2\b (5)
\f0\b0 nipatapa\uc0\u7789 ahonn\u257 dit\u257 \u347 \u257 ntar\u257 le \'95\
camp\uc0\u257 r\u257 j\u257 dhir\u257 ja\u7717  sa jayati mahas\u257 jau yath\u257  p\u257 \u7751 \u7693 us\u363 nu\u7717  ||\
	b. % sapi: \'95\
\
XVIII. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
ny\uc0\u257 yena ma
\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0 hat\uc0\u257  tena \'95 janit\u257  dharmmapaddhati\u7717  (\'95)\
tay\uc0\u257  \u347 reyas tu janita\u7745  r\u257 j\'f1o v\u299 vr\u805 dhad ai\u347 varam\'b7 ||\
	a. % sapi: ny\uc0\u257 yena\
	b. No \'95 seems to be noted at the end of this p\uc0\u257 da. %% a faint one could be distnguished\
\
XIX. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
\uc0\u347 r\u299 sampada\u7745  vicitr\u257 rth\u257 m ir\u257 dh\u299 \u347 apras\u257 data\u7717  \'95\
Am\uc0\u257 
\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0 tyo v\uc0\u257 pa ya\u347  c\u257 j\'f1\u257  mah\u257 s\u257 mantasa\u7745 j\'f1aka\u7717  |\
	ab. vicitr\uc0\u257 rth\u257 m ir\u257 dh\u299 \u347 a\'b0:  vicitr\u257 rth\u257 dhir\u257 dh\u299 \u347 a\'b0 Huber. Huber emends to vicitr\u257 rth\u257 dhir adh\u299 \u347 a\'b0, which does not seem to yield any sense, and ignores the p\u257 da-boundary. Cf. C. 149, st. XII, for another attestion of the word 
\f3\i ir\uc0\u257 
\f0\i0  \'91Earth\'92. \
	% sapi: On the stone, I read \'91dhi\'92, but I understand the logic. \
	Difference between \'91ma\'92 and \'91dha\'92: very similar characters but the \'91body\'92 of the \'91ma\'92 is opened on the right, and the body of the \'91dha\'92 is opened in the middle. Cf. comparison 	with \'b0mah\uc0\u257 s\u257 m, on the same line. \
	b. % sapi: \'95\cf3 \
\cf0 	d. |: Huber reads ||, but there really seems to be only a single da\uc0\u7751 \u7693 a. \
	% sapi: confirmed  single da\uc0\u7751 \u7693 a.\
\
\
XX. [sragdhar\uc0\u257 ]\
m\uc0\u257 l\u257 \u347 ir\u7779 ottama\u347 r\u299 r vvaratilakaruci\u7717  kar\u7751 \u7751 abh\u363 \u7779 \u257  samast\u257  \'95\
\uc0\u347 re\u7779 \u7789 ha\u7717  kar\u7751 \u7751 \u257 vata\u7749 so
\f2\b  (8) 
\f0\b0 pi yugalavasana\uc0\u7745  rugmak\u257 \'f1c\u299 gu\u7751 a\u347 r\u299 \u7717  \'95\
satkha\cf3 d\cf0 go rugmako\uc0\u347 o pi ca rajatanibha\u7745  bh\u257 jana\u7745  v\u257  cir\u257 \u7751 \u7693 a\u7745  \'95\
m\uc0\u257 y\u363 racchattrabhr\u805 \u7749 g\u257 rakala\u347 anica
\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0 yo daulik\uc0\u257  raupyada\u7751 \u7693 \u257  \'95 ||\
	a. m\uc0\u257 l\u257 \u347 ir\u7779 ottama\'b0: m\u257 l\u257 \u347 \u299 r\u7779 ottama\'b0 Huber. Correct to m\u257 l\u257 \u347 \u299 r\u7779 ottama\'b0.\
	b. Apparently no \'95 is noted at the end of this p\uc0\u257 da.\
	% sapi: on the stone I read one.\
	c. satkha\cf3 d\cf0 go: satkha\cf3 \uc0\u7693 \cf0 go Huber.\
\
XXI. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
Ity et\uc0\u257 ni ca yasyaiva r\u257 j\u257 j\'f1\u257 suprayatnata\u7717  \'95\
d\uc0\u363 rllabh\u257 n\u299 ha\u7745  loke nyai\'95r api pr\u257 d\u257 n mah\u299 pati\u7717  ||\
	c. d\uc0\u363 rllabh\u257 n\u299 ha\'b0: corr. durllabh\u257 n\u299 ha\'b0.\
	% sapi: d\uc0\u363 rllabh\u257 n\u299 ha\u7745 . There is a very clear anusvara on the stone.\
\

\f2\b (10)
\f0\b0  yas tu daulik\uc0\u257 m adhivasan r\u257 japarata Ucchritam\u257 y\u363 racchattrapriy\u257 y\u257 \u347 e\u7779 av\u257 dyais saha valair asy\u257 \u347  c\u257 vatarati punar ida\u7745  \u347 re
\f2\b (11)
\f0\b0 ya\uc0\u7717  ||\
\
XXII. [upaj\uc0\u257 ti]\
n\uc0\u257 gendram \u257 ruhya valair asa\u7745 khyai\u7717 \
par\uc0\u257 parair \u257 vr\u805 tap\u257 dac\u257 ram\'b7 \'95\
lak\uc0\u7779 my\u257  vibh\u257 ty ucchritasanma+y\u363 +ra-\
pracch\uc0\u257 ditasv\u257 tmaraviprat\u257 pa\u7717 \
	a+c. Apparently no \'95 is noted a the end of these p\uc0\u257 das.\
	% sapi: confirmed.\
	c. \'b0sanma+y\uc0\u363 +ra\'b0: the syllable 
\f3\i y\uc0\u363 
\f0\i0  is added below 
\f3\i sa
\f0\i0  and to the left (!) of  
\f3\i nma
\f0\i0 , as the 
\f3\i pra
\f0\i0  to the right left no space for placing it there. A \'91k\uc0\u257 kap\u257 da\'92 sign above the line marks the place where the syllable needs to be inserted. See Huber\'92s note.\
	d. Huber reads ||, but is it highly questionable whether any punctuation was ever written at the end of this p\uc0\u257 da.
\f3\i \

\f0\i0 \
XXIII. [\uc0\u257 ry\u257 ]\

\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0  bhr\uc0\u257 t\u257  yasy\u257 sty \u257 j\'f1\u257  narendranr\u805 pavitrasa\u7745 j\'f1ako m\u257 tya\u7717 \
kalpakriy\uc0\u257 vidhij\'f1a\u7717  \'95 parame\u347 varadharmmasarvvatantraj\'f1a\u7717  ||\
	a. Apparently no \'95 is noted a the end of this p\uc0\u257 da.\
	% sapi: confirmed.\
\
XXIV. [vasantatilak\uc0\u257 ]\
yasy\uc0\u257 nuja
\f2\b (13)
\f0\b0 s sakala\uc0\u347 \u257 strasamarthabuddhir\
buddhi\uc0\u347 riy\u257  bhuvi samo \u7749 giras\u257 bhig\u299 ta\u7717 \
\uc0\u256 j\'f1\u257  jayendrapatisa\u7745 j\'f1aka Uttam\u257 tm\u257 - \'95\
m\uc0\u257 tya\u7717  pavi
\f2\b (14)
\f0\b0 traku\uc0\u347 alena pavitrit\u257 \u7749 ga\u7717  ||\
	a+b. Apparently no \'95 signs are noted at the end of these p\uc0\u257 das.\
	% sapi: confirmed.\
\
XXV. [anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
sarvvade\uc0\u347 \u257 ntar\u257 y\u257 tabh\u363 bhuksande\u347 am \u257 gatam\'b7 \'95\
nir\uc0\u299 k\u7779 yaikak\u7779 a\u7751 a\u7745  vetti ni\u347 \u347 e\u7779 \u257 rtha\u7745  mat\u299 hay\u257  \'95\
	d. ni\uc0\u347 \u347 e\u7779 \u257 rtha\u7745  mat\u299 hay\u257 : ni\u347 \u347 e\u7779 \u257 rtha\u7745  at\u299 hay\u257  || Huber. There is no trace of any punctuation sign other than \'95.\
\

\f2\b (15)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u347 r\u299 jayasi\u7745 havarmmadevasya pu\u7751 ya\u7717  \u347 r\u299 jayaguhe\u347 varo devo vi\u7779 \u7751 u\u347  ca vi\u7779 \u7751 upure \'95 |\cf2  \
\cf0 \uc0\u347 r\u299 bhadravarmmadevasya punya\u7717  \u347 r\u299 prak\u257 \u347 abhadre
\f2\b (16)
\f0\b0 \uc0\u347 vara\u7717  \u347 r\u299 rudrako\u7789 \u299 \u347 vara\u347  ca \u347 r\u299 bhadramalaye\u347 vara\u347  ca \u347 r\u299 bhadracampe\u347 vara\u347  ca \u347 r\u299 bhadrama\u7751 \u7693 ale\u347 vara\u347  ca \'95 \u347 r\u299 dharmme\u347 vara\u347  ca \'95 \u347 r\u299 bhadrapure\u347 vara\u347  ca \'95 \
te
\f2\b (17)
\f0\b0 \uc0\u7779 u pra\u347 ast\u257 ni \u347 il\u257 lekh\u257 k\u7779 ar\u257 la\u7749 kr\u805 t\u257 ny akarod \u257 j\'f1\u257  jayendrapatin\u257 m\u257 m\u257 tyo nekaparibhogadaulik\u257 m\u257 
\f2\b (18)
\f0\b0 y\uc0\u363 rakanakanivaddhakha\cf3 d\cf0 gako\uc0\u347 akala\u347 abhr\u805 \u7749 g\u257 r\'b7rajatabh\u257 janakatis\u363 traku\u7751 \u7693 alaku\u7751 \u7693 alaga\u7751 acir\u257 \u7751 \u7693 ayugalavasan\u257 d\u299 ni pr\u257 ptav\u257 n r\u257 
\f2\b (19)
\f0\b0 japras\uc0\u257 d\u257 d iti || \
	18. \'b0khadga\'b0: \'b0kha\uc0\u7693 ga\'b0 Huber.\
	18. \'b0bhr\uc0\u805 \u7749 g\u257 r\'b7rajata\'b0: corr. \'b0bhr\u805 \u7749 g\u257 rarajata\'b0. Huber has missed the odd insertion of an unwanted vir\u257 ma sign.\
	18. \'b0katis\uc0\u363 tra\'b0: read \'b0ka\u7789 is\u363 tra\'b0.\
	19. \'b0pras\uc0\u257 d\u257 d: \'b0pras\u257 d\u257 t Huber.\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 [2 added lines in Cam not transliterated by Huber, perhaps in continuation of the lines at the bottom of D]\

\f2\b (20) 
\f0\b0 s\uc0\u257  suvauk\'b7 pirak\'b7 \cf3 s\uc0\u257  ta\{1\}\cf4 n\'b7\cf3  \cf0 la\uc0\u7749 gov\'b7 s\u257  tral\u257 y\'b7 la\u7749 gov\'b7 \cf3 tluv\'b7 \cf0 Avista dravya \cf3 nan\'b7 \uc0\u7749 an\'b7 \cf0 vli\uc0\u109 \u771  kintu y\u257 \u109 \u771  pu pov ku \u347 r\u299 jayasi\u109 \u771 havarmmade
\f2\b (21)
\f0\b0 va ya\uc0\u109 \u771 \u7749 \'b7 \cf3 (katuC\'b7) X X X n\'b7\
	\cf4 20. \cf3 (ta X\cf5 n)\cf4 \'b7: \cf3 ta\{1\}\cf4 n\'b7 (sapi)\
	% sapi: Today line 20 from \'91s\uc0\u257 \'92 to \'91\cf3 nan\'b7 \uc0\u7749 an\'b7\cf4 \'92\cf3  \cf4 is damaged and very difficult to read. The same goes with line 21. \cf2 \
\cf0 \
Face C.\
	[proper right face of the stela]\
\

\f2\b (1-5)
\f0\b0  illegible\
	The first three lines seem to constitute a secondary addition, in Cam.\
	% sapi: they are actually written starting from the top of the inscription.\
\
[anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
= = = 
\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0  nuj\uc0\u257  yasya \'95 s\u257 dhuvr\u805 tty\u257 \u347 rit\u257 \u347 ay\u257  \'95\
Ugradev\uc0\u299  sat\u299  n\u257 mn\u257  \'95
\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0 khy\uc0\u257 yate pu\u7751 yak\u257 \u7745 k\u7779 in\u299  ||\
	6. % sapi: Today, this line of the text is damaged \cf4 and very difficult to read.\cf0 \
\
tais tatsahodarair eka
\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0 matibhir mm\uc0\u257 tranuj\'f1ay\u257  \u347 r\u299 mah\u257 rudradeva\u7717  prati\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 pito 
\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0  maddhyata\uc0\u7717  gaga\u7751 advima\u7749 gala\u347 ake pitur \u257 j\'f1\u257  s\u257 rthav\u257 han\u257 
\f2\b (10)
\f0\b0 mna\uc0\u7717  \u347 r\u299  Indravarmmanr\u805 patimah\u257 devy\u257  \u347 r\u299 rudravarmmabh\u363 pabhr\u257 
\f2\b (11)
\f0\b0 tr\uc0\u299 yay\u257 sya sahodarasya pratir\u363 pata\u7717  pitari tadbhaktyai sva
\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0 janan\uc0\u299 bh\u363 mau ||\
	8. \'b0matibhir: Huber gave this (the correct) reading in his text, but added a note \'93Le lapicide a \'e9crit 
\f3\i m\uc0\u257 tibhr\u805 ir
\f0\i0 \'94, which shows that Huber was confused by the elaborate subscript 
\f3\i m
\f4  
\f1\i0 of the following ak\uc0\u7779 ara
\f0 .\
	8. mm\uc0\u257 tranuj\'f1ay\u257 : corr. mm\u257 tr\u257 nuj\'f1ay\u257 .\
\
Atha tenottarata Iya\uc0\u7745  bhagavat\u299  prati
\f2\b (13)
\f0\b0 \uc0\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 pit\u257  khavahnitanu\u347 ake m\u257 tur atitakalpasant\u257 naku
\f2\b (14)
\f0\b0 lodbhav\uc0\u257 y\u257 \u7717  pu pov\'b7 ku rudrapurasa\u7745 j\'f1ik\u257 y\u257  dev\u299 ga\u7751 a
\f2\b (15)
\f0\b0 patikum\uc0\u257 r\u257 n im\u257 n dev\u257 n prati\u7779 \u7789 h\u257 payanty\u257 \u347  candr\u257 gnitanu
\f2\b (16)
\f0\b0 \uc0\u347 ake pratir\u363 pato m\u257 tari tadbhaktaye svabh\u363 mau ||\
	12. Atha: on the stone, I read A\uc0\u7745 tha (sapi).\
	13. atita\'b0: at\uc0\u299 ta\'b0 Huber. Correct at\u299 ta\'b0.\
\
Api 
\f2\b (17)
\f0\b0  c\uc0\u257 m\u257 tya \u256 j\'f1\u257  jayendrapatin\u257 meti dak\u7779 i\u7751 ata I
\f2\b (18)
\f0\b0 ma\uc0\u7745  \u347 r\u299 mah\u257 \u347 ivali\u7749 ge\u347 varadevam asth\u257 payan navadvima\u7749 ga
\f2\b (19)
\f0\b0 la\uc0\u347 ake parame\u347 varap\u363 j\u257 rtham iha janan\u299 bh\u363 mau svak\u299 
\f2\b (20)
\f0\b0 rttaye veti ||\
	17. dak\uc0\u7779 i\u7751 ata: dak\u7779 inata Huber.\
\
Face D.\
	[proper left face of the stela]\
\

\f2\b (1-5)
\f0\b0  illegible, possibly a secondary addition.\
% sapi: they are actually written starting from the top of the inscription.\
\

\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0  .... va\uc0\u7749 un\'b7 vul\u257 n\'b7 lim\u257  (n\u257  ru)....\

\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0  .... Udy\uc0\u257 na nau naga\cf3 ra\cf0  li ....\

\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0  .... vriy\'b7 mu\'f1\uc0\u299  krau\u7749 \'b7 ....\

\f2\b (9) 
\f0\b0 ... Andap\'b7 y\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pov\'b7 ku si(niy\'b7) ...\

\f2\b (10)
\f0\b0  [y\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7] pov\'b7 ku (siniy\'b7) \cf3 matand\uc0\u257 \u7717  pakar\'b7\cf0  sarvv\uc0\u257 kar\u257 d\u257 na sarvva pat\'b7\
% sapi: Today, these lines of the text are damaged \cf4 and very difficult to read\cf0 \
\

\f2\b (11)
\f0\b0  matand\uc0\u257 \u7717  ya siy\'b7 ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 \cf6 n\uc0\u257 ma pamata\u7717 \cf0  matand\uc0\u257 \u7717  niy\'b7 Ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 nan\'b7 la-\

\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0  c\'b7 di naraka \'95 ya siy\'b7 Ur\uc0\u257 \u7749  n\u257 ma \cf4 ta(\uc0\u7745 )n\'b7\cf0  pamata\uc0\u7717  matand\u257 \u7717  niy\'b7\

\f2\b (13)
\f0\b0  Ur\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7 nan\'b7 nau dauk\'b7 di svargga yath\u257  I\u7779 \u7789 a driy\'b7 \'95 r\u257 j\u257 -\

\f2\b (14)
\f0\b0  j\'f1\uc0\u257  na la\u7749 ghan\u299 y\u257  bhavadbhi\u7717  \'95\
	11. \cf2 n\uc0\u257 ma pamata\u7717 \cf4 : almost erased on the stone today (sapi).\
	12. \cf2 tan\'b7\cf4 : ta(\uc0\u7745 )n\'b7 (sapi)\cf0 \
\
[anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
(\cf3 AI\cf0 )\cf5 (va)\cf0 ndav\uc0\u299  y\u257  kal\u257  y\u257 vad y\u257 vat s\u363 
\f2\b (15)
\f0\b0 ryyakar\uc0\u257 val\u299  \'95\
d\uc0\u299 pam\u257 n\u257 sti rodasyo\'95r asmi\u7745 s t\u257 vad sumukti
\f2\b (16)
\f0\b0 k\uc0\u257  ||\
	a. ndav\uc0\u299 : \cf5 (va)\cf0 ndav\uc0\u299  (sapi). On the stone, I read an 
\f3\i ak\uc0\u7779 ara
\f0\i0  that really looks like a \'91va\'92. \
	c. rodasyor: in a note. Huber proposes \'93Corr. rodasor\'94, but this would go against the meter and\cf3  
\f3\i rodasyor
\f0\i0  is anyhow an acceptable form\cf0 .\
	% Asmi\uc0\u7745 s: asmi\u7745 s (sapi).\
\
y\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pu pov\'b7 ku siniy\'b7 ranak\u7779 \u257  Ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 vi\u347 e\u7779 a tapa\u7717  \

\f2\b (17)
\f0\b0  maAnan\'b7 driy\'b7 y\uc0\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pov\'b7 ku di y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 y\cf4 a\uc0\u7745 \u7749 \cf0 \'b7 sandhy\uc0\u257  di y\u257 -\

\f2\b (18)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u7749 \'b7 pu pov\'b7 ku \u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 nabhadre\u347 vara \'95 kintu g\cf4 a\uc0\u7745 p\cf0 \'b7 kamiy\'b7 ya\uc0\u7749 \'b7 yaja-\

\f2\b (19)
\f0\b0  m\uc0\u257 na y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pov\'b7 ku siniy\'b7 k\u257  driy\'b7 yajam\u257 na y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pov\'b7 \

\f2\b (20)
\f0\b0  ku siniy\'b7 pakn\uc0\u257  dharmma niy\'b7 siy\'b7 srau\u7749 \'b7 punya \cf4 va\cf0  kamiy\'b7\

\f2\b (21)
\f0\b0  pakn\uc0\u257  ka\u7745 n\'b7 Ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 tapa\u7717  vi\u347 e\u7779 a sida\u7717  luniy\'b7 nap\u257 y\'b7 \

\f2\b (22)
\f0\b0  \cf4 het\cf0 u je\uc0\u7749 \'b7 da\u7717  sunan\'b7 Ur\u257 \u7749 \'b7 tapa\u7717  vi\u347 e\u7779 a nan\'b7 tan mad\u257  \cf4 +\cf2 \
	\cf4 18. \cf0 \'95: three vertical dots (sapi).\
	20. punya \cf3 (u/va)\cf4 : punya va (sapi). \
	22. % sapi: + sign confirmed.\cf2 \
\cf0 \
[the last four lines, of which the final two were left untransliterated by Huber, constitute an addition, continued at the bottom of B]
\f2\b \
(23)
\f0\b0  hum\uc0\u257  vandrau\cf3 v\'b7\cf0  nariy\'b7 \cf4 tu(\uc0\u7745 )\cf3  (g/th/bh)au\cf0  \cf2 nau pa\cf0 ta\uc0\u109 \u771 l\'b7 huluv\'b7 \cf2 AIr\'b7 dra\uc0\u7745 \cf0  A-\

\f2\b (24)
\f0\b0  vi\uc0\u7717  hum\u257  nan\'b7 k\u257  ra vu\u7717  di y\u257 \u7749 \'b7 pov\'b7 ku \u347 r\u299 mah\u257 rudra\
reprendre ici\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 (25) 
\f0\b0 \uc0\u7749 an\'b7 AIr\'b7 dra\u7745  niy\'b7 \u7749 an\'b7 \cf3 ca\cf0 l\'b7 ni\uc0\u109 \u771  tana\u7717  glai klauv\'b7 ni\u109 \u771  Avi\u7717 
\f2\b \
(26) 
\f0\b0 nau kintu vli\uc0\u109 \u771  \u7749 an\'b7 dravya \cf3 curav\'b7 \cf0 pirak\'b7\cf3  dv\uc0\u257  \cf0 kala\uc0\u347 \cf7 a pirak\'b7\cf0 \
	23. \cf3 tu(\uc0\u7745 )gau\cf8 : tu(\uc0\u7745 ) \cf5 (g/th/bh)\cf8 au (sapi)\
	25. \cf0  \cf3 ca\cf0 l\'b7: it indeed looks like a 
\f3\i ca
\f0\i0  (sapi).\
	26. \cf3 curav\cf7 : today illegible (sapi).\
		\cf3 dv\uc0\u257 \cf4 : today damaged but could be read as such (sapi).\
		\cf3  pirak\cf0 \'b7: \cf3  \cf7 the last character looks like a 
\f3\i t
\f0\i0 , but the first two are clearly legible. The combinaison kala\uc0\u347 a pirak\'b7 enables us to read this word (sapi).\
		\cf0 \
}