{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20160\viewh8280\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 73\
\
M\uc0\u7929  S\u417 n Stela of "Sambhuvarman\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 BTLS Hanoi LSb 21153 = Hanoi : B 2, 3\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Estampage EFEO n. 131a and 131b.\
\
References: (A) Louis Finot, "Notes d'\'e9pigraphie III: St\'e8le de \'c7ambhuvarman \'e0 Mi-son", BEFEO III (1903), pp. 206-211 [EEPC, pp. 9-14]; Majumdar, pp. 9-13; Golzio, pp. 7-8. (B) Edouard Huber, BEFEO XI (1911), pp. 264 [EEPC, pp. \cf3 2**\cf0 ]\
\

\b Text (Arlo Griffiths)
\b0 \
From the inked EFEO estampages and (partly) the stone.\
	The numbering retained on both faces starts with the first line of which any trace remains visible. In reality, both faces will originally have comprised a greater number of lines, since the top of the stela is lost.\
\
Face A.\
\

\b (1)
\b0  ... ti.h ||\
\
[mandaakraanta: - - - - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - ~ - - ~ - - ]\
ga"nge"sasy [p]r[a] ~ ~ ~ ~ - - ~ - - ~ - - \

\b (2)
\b0  - - - - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - ~ - (sya) gu.naanaam_\
bibhrad gu\cf3 rvii.m\cf0  dhuram anavara\cf3 a - \cf0 ~ - - ~ - -\

\b (3)
\b0  - - - - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ["sriiru]dravarmmaa narendra.h ||\
	c. anavaraa: anavaraat [maa] Finot. It seems impossible to read 
\i tmaa
\i0 .\
\
tasmin brahmak.satriyakulatilake "sriirudra
\b (4)
\b0 [varmma.ni] .. .. .. .. \cf3 yu\cf0 ttare.su catur.su var.sa"sate.su "sakaanaa.m vyatiite.sv agnidagdha.m devadevaala
\b (5)
\b0 [yam] .. .. .. .. \
\
[mandaakraanta]\
sth[i]tyutpattipralayava"sina"s "suulinas \cf3 sa\cf0 maraa.naa.m\
\cf3 ya.m s.r.s.taanaam\cf0  adahad ana\cf3 hi\cf0  - ~ - - ~ - - |\

\b (6)
\b0  - - - - ~ yam amalino vadyavett.rsvabhaava.h\
k.rtsna.m vetti tribhuvanagurux kaara.na.m sthaa.nur eva ||\
	a. \cf3 sa\cf0 maraa.naa.m: thus Finot, but the reading is unmetrical; the only possible alternaive reading I see would be \cf3 su\cf0 maraa.naa.m, which yields no sense and does not solve the metrical problem.\
	b. ya.m s.r.s.taanaam: sa.msthi - naam Finot.\
\

\b (7)
\b0  .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. parimaa.ne "sakakaale svapu.nyaati"sayaad divam adhiruu.dhasya "sriirudravarmma.na.h\

\b (8) 
\b0 ti \cf2 || gu\cf0 .naa vibhava .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. \cf3 gramahaanya\cf0 "saasyamali\cf3 na- \cf0 \

\b (9) 
\b0 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. \cf3 (rataa)\cf0  svak.rtyamatihaanas\cf3 aukhya.m\cf0  \cf3 sukha.m\cf0  samastam iha yasya t.r\cf3 [p]t[ai].h\cf0 \

\b (10)
\b0  .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. [pra]jaapras\cf2 uut\cf0 o nitaantorjjita"s "srii "sa.mbhuvarmmaabhi.sekanaamaa ||\cf2  dh.rtasucarita- \cf0 \

\b (11)
\b0  .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. dhaamnaa prakaa"sa.h vasatir avanisuuryyas \cf3 sapadaa.m\cf0  khyaataviiryyo \

\b (12)
\b0  .. .. .. .. \cf3 patara \cf0 "sriipra"sastadharmmadi.n.dikanaamaa || prak.rs.tadharmma\cf3 s(u/va)\cf0 gu.nair n.r- \

\b (13)
\b0  .. .. .. .. .. .. mii "saratprado.sendur ivaabhyudeti || \cf3 dvaapara \{3 illegible ak.saras\}\cf0  \

\b (14)
\b0  .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. \

\b (15)
\b0  \{13 ak\uc0\u7779 aras\} [in]drayoge bhaarggavadivase sthirahoraadrekkaa.nanavaa.m"sakatr\cf3 i.m\cf0 "sadbhaagamaurikaa\

\b (16)
\b0  \{12 ak\uc0\u7779 aras\} [la]gne suvi"suddh[e] t.rtiiyaadityaketucaturthaasuragurujiivabudha.sa.s.tharaahu-\

\b (17)
\b0  \{10 ak\uc0\u7779 aras\} \cf3 (ndra)ma\cf0 sa saptacatvaari.m"satku.davaasu saptada"sanaalikaasu purask.rtagopa\cf3 svaa-\cf0 \

\b (18) 
\b0 \{8 ak\uc0\u7779 aras\} \cf3 na\cf0 brahma durvvalirambhasaami jaataruupaa\cf3 graasa\cf0 nikasahitena braahma.ne\cf3 .sv\cf0  \cf3 ati\cf0 "sayaacaaryya\

\b (19)
\b0  \{6 ak\uc0\u7779 aras\} na "srii"sa.mbhuvarmma.naa prati.s.thaapita.h tata"s "sa.mbhubhadre"svara.h || \
\cf2 	7. \'b0\cf0 rudravarmma.na.h: \'b0rudravarmma.no Finot.\cf2 \
	9. t.r[p]t[ai].h: t.r .. Finot.\
	9. \'b0saukhya.m sukha.m: \'b0saatmya.m s.ve Finot.\
	10.  [pra]jaaprasuuto: .. lapras.rto Finot.\
	10. \cf0  dh.rtasucarita-:  dh.rtasucari Finot. \cf2 \
	11. sapadaa.m: sa.mpadaa Finot. Correct sa.mpadaa?\
\cf0 	\cf2 12. s(u/va)gu.nair n.r: sagu.no \cf0 n.r Finot.\
	15. [ai](n)drayoge: [in]drayoge Finot.\
	15. \'b0bhaagamaurikaa: thus Finot. Corr. (Eade) \'b0bhaagamaurvikaa?\
	18. jaataruupaagraasanikasahitena: or jaataruupaagrasenikasahitena?\
\
[mandaakraanta]\
s.r.s.ta.m yena tritayam akhila\cf3 .m\cf0  bhuur bhuvas sva.h \

\b (20)
\b0  sva"sa\cf3 kty\cf0 aa yenotkhaa\cf3 ta.m\cf0  bhuvanadurita.m bahninevaandhakaaram_ \
yasyaacintyo jagati mahimaa yasya naadir nna caanta
\b (21)
\b0 "s\
campaade"se janayatu sukha.m "sa.mbhubhadre"svaro yam_ ||\
\
api ca bhadravarmma.naa raaj~naa yeyam ak.sayi.nii bhuumi.h\

\b (22)
\b0  saku.tumbijanaa dattaa tasyaa.h puurvve.na sullahaparvvato dak.si.nena mahaaparvvata.h pa"scimena k\cf3 u\cf0 c\cf4 o\cf0 kaparvvata.h \

\b (23) 
\b0 \{8 ak\uc0\u7779 aras\} bhuumau ye ku.tumbino nivasanti tair dda"samo bhaago daatavyo raajaadhiraajena \

\b \cf3 (24)
\b0  .. .. .. sthitim anupaalayadbhir nna vinaa"sayit.r[bhi.h] .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..	\cf4 This last paragraph alludes to the text of C. 72.\
	The last line is entirely absent on the estampage.\cf0 \
\
Face B.\
[Only a few individual words cited by Finot, and three lines partially read by Huber.]\
\

\b (1) 
\b0 [only the bottom parts of some illegible ak.saras]
\b \
(2) 
\b0 \cf3 .... k.sam atha dii.s.thaayattapabaddhenii k.sipa ...
\b \cf0 \
(3) 
\b0 \{4 illegible ak.saras\} \cf3 dhati.s.thataarmmaa\cf0 "\cf3 sakaCil\cf2 lak.smiis \cf3 saamaagrityaaya dCigdheccheya ...\cf0 \

\b (4) 
\b0 \cf3 ... kaakaparisthitasyoyasyodayabhuurjjadi"saak.r ..
\b \cf0 \
(5) 
\b0 \cf3 tedaaparimitasitamadhumakabhalaprapujaivas saaditadirada"se.sa X X X X raa Ci ....
\b \cf0 \
(6) 
\b0 \cf3 kaarajanaamatamaa \{4\} dmasamagre X X reja\cf2 "sriimataa\cf3  \cf2 "sriicampaapuraparame"svare\cf3  ...
\b \cf0 \
(7) 
\b0 \cf3 dakmetyo ...
\b \cf0 \
(8) 
\b0 \cf3 padmati ... kii.te vayaatadina ...
\b \cf0 \
(9) 
\b0 ... \cf3 "suddhayogaatma ...
\b \cf0 \
(10) 
\b0 "\cf2 srii"sambhubhadre"svara\cf3 s sarvvag.rhaala X X ...\cf0 \

\b (11) 
\b0 \cf4 yu\cf0 taatiit\cf4 a\cf0 "sakendre \cf3 "suce.h sitada"saahe citravaa ...
\b \cf0 \
(12) 
\b0 tasyaatha campaap.rthivii \cf3 Xbh\cf0 uja"s "sriiprakaa"sadharmmaa ... 
\b \
(13) 
\b0 dauhitrasyaasiij jagadekaviira.h || padme dhig vyoma ...\

\b (14) 
\b0 ... prathita.h || sa eva ...
\b \
(15) 
\b0 ... 
\b \
(16) 
\b0 ... \cf3 maridakhasuh.rdaataa X \cf0 da"nnaama mahaako.s.thaagaara.m \cf3 pala ...
\b \cf0 \
(17) 
\b0 ... ra~ncra papiragdhra\cf3 jama ...
\b \cf0 \
(18) 
\b0 ...\cf3  \cf0 pateyur nnarake \cf3 (pa) ...
\b \cf0 \
(19) 
\b0 \cf3  ... bhik.saastadharmmoha
\b \cf0 \
(20) 
\b0 \cf3 ... bdhadamalakaambha ...
\b \cf0 \
(21) 
\b0 \cf3 ... haranti ... rauravakumbhe  ...
\b \cf0 \
(22) 
\b0 \cf3 ... k.sapadatra X vanta ||
\b \cf0 \
\

\b0 \
}