{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 GandhariUnicode;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red217\green11\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c85098\c4314\c0;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18740\viewh7340\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 C. 246 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Inscription of Po Dam\
\
Discovered on September 20, 2014 near the Po Dam Tower in Tuy Phong District, B\'ecnhThu\uc0\u7853 n Province. Dr Hoang has confirmed TKP that the inscription was found at about 04 meters to the south-west corner of the central tower close to the mountain slope; the stone slab is 70x80cm; the word is 03-04cm high.\
\
Email AL 04/08/2015: \'ab\'a0
\f1 Tu trouveras en pj une photo de la pierre grav\'e9e avec, derri\'e8re elle, Thanh Phan, sa femme et monsieur L\'fd Duy T\'f9ng, la personne qui a d\'e9couvert l'inscription de Po Dam en juillet 2014 lorsqu'il nettoyait le site de Po Dam. Cette pierre se trouve au sud-ouest du temple central (ou temple C, suivant la planche VI de Parmentier).\'a0Monsieur L\'fd Duy T\'f9ng\'a0a d\'e9couvert la pierre grav\'e9e \'e0 cet endroit, sur le sol, dans la v\'e9g\'e9tation qui emp\'eachait jusqu'alors de bien voir cette pierre et surtout l'inscription qui y est grav\'e9e. Il s'agit peut-\'eatre d'un morceau de la paroi rocheuse que l'on voit sur cette photo.\'a0C'est la face sup\'e9rieure de la pierre qui est inscrite.\'a0TP, sa femme et monsieur\'a0L\'fd Duy T\'f9ng sont plac\'e9s\'a0perpendiculairement \'e0 l'inscription qui se trouve au milieu de cette grande face. Non, nous n'avons pas fait d'estampage : nous n'avions pas eu l'occasion de nous entra\'eener \'e0 Quang Ngai et surtout nous n'avions pas d'autorisation.\'a0\'bb\

\f0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Text
\b0 \
Arlo Griffiths, based on photos sent by Th\'e0nh Ph\uc0\u7847 n, TKP and AL.\
\

\b (1)
\b0  svasti\
\
[Anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh]\
k\uc0\u7779 o\u7751 \u299 bahniras\u257 \u7749 kite \u347 a(ka\cf2 )[va]r\uc0\u7779 \u257 \cf0 r\uc0\u257 m\u257 \u347 rite \cf2 ||\cf0  \
tri\cf3 ge\cf0  
\b (2) 
\b0 ph\uc0\u257 lgu\u7751 yasya site \cf2 sa \cf0 \uc0\u347 u+kra+diva\cf3 s\cf0 e\cf2  tha\cf0 \
	b. \'b0[va]r\uc0\u7779 \u257 r\u257 m\u257 \u347 rite\'b0: this reading is unmetrical and very uncertain also for other reasons. The second ak\u7779 ara looks more like 
\i rtha
\i0  or 
\i rth\uc0\u257 
\i0 ; the first would seem to bear a 
\i repha
\i0  or vocalization (
\i \uc0\u257  
\i0 or
\i  \uc0\u299 
\i0 ).\
	
\i \cf2 \uc0\u347 akat\u299 rth\u257 r\u257 m\u257 \u347 rite
\i0 ?\cf0 \
\
The inscription seems to form one almost complete stanza in the Anu\uc0\u7779 \u7789 ubh meter, the last syllable being entirely lost or never written. It comprises only or almost exlusively a dating formula, of which I so far understand only the chronogam (
\i k\uc0\u7779 o\u7751 i-bahni-rasa
\i0  \'91earth-fires-flavors\'92 = 1-3-6, so 631 \uc0\u346 aka) and the indication of the month and fortnight (
\i ph\uc0\u257 lgu\u7751 yasya site
\i0  \'91in the waxing fortnight of Ph\uc0\u257 lgu\u7751 a\'92). Presumably 
\i trige
\i0  indicates the quaniti\'e8me as \'91third\'92, in which case we land on Thursday, February 6, 710 CE, one day off from the indication 
\i \uc0\u347 ukradivase
\i0  (Thursday) in the text.\
\
Tentative translation:\
When the \uc0\u346 aka year had reached a halt (
\i \uc0\u257 r\u257 ma
\i0 ?) in (1) earth, (3) fires, (6) flavors, in the waxing fortnight of Phalgu\uc0\u7751 a, on the third, a Friday.\
}