{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21620\viewh8580\viewkind0
\deftab708
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\f0\fs40 \cf0 C. 43 Stela of Dra\uc0\u7749  Lai \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b \cf0 On idiosyncratic spellings in this text
\b0\fs38 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs40 \cf0 Throughout this text (as in other inscriptions issued under V\uc0\u299 rabhadravarmadeva), we encounter a degree of orthographic license that is significantly greater than during earlier centuries of production of inscriptions in Camp\u257 . In order to be able to identify words, and trace them in dictionaries of Sanskrit and Cam, one needs to be alert to the following phenomena.\
	\'95 very common doubling of consonants, not only before/after r (which is a common phenomenon reflecting Sanskrit orthographic habits) but also between vowels.\
	\'95 no systematic distinction is made between the \'91retroflex\'92 and \'91dental\'92 series of the consonants (
\i \uc0\u7789  \u7789 h \u7693  \u7693 h \u7751 
\i0  vs. 
\i t th d dh n
\i0 )\
	\'95 in second position of a consonant cluster, expected 
\i \uc0\u7751 
\i0  almost always appears as 
\i n
\i0 .\
	\'95 vowel length of Sanskrit words borrowed into Cam is not always faithfully retained.\
	\'95 the distinction between three sibilants 
\i \uc0\u347  \u7779  s 
\i0 is not well preserved in words borrowed from Sanskrit.\
	\'95 probably due to their graphic similarity, syllables with 
\i ra 
\i0 or 
\i \uc0\u7771 
\i0  after a consonant are not kept distinct; presumably due to similarity of pronunciation, syllables with 
\i ri 
\i0 and
\i  \uc0\u7771 
\i0  after a consonant are also confused.\
	\'95 there is a tendency to insert a consonant 
\i v 
\i0 into clusters 
\i nr
\i0 , and a tendency to drop the medial consonant in cluster 
\i ndr
\i0 .\
	\'95 cluster of Sanskrit words are broken up in unpredictable ways.\
	\'95 the sign transliterated as 
\i \uc0\u109 \u771  
\i0 carries out different functions, either affecting the vowel or standing as equivalent for the consonants 
\i \uc0\u7749 
\i0 , 
\i y
\i0  and 
\i v 
\i0 in syllable-final position.\
Examples illustrating these phenomena: 
\i sa\uc0\u7751 tusta = santu\u7779 \u7789 a
\i0  \'91satisfied\'92, 
\i pr\uc0\u257 \u7751 na
\i0  = 
\i pr\uc0\u257 \u7751 a 
\i0 \'91life\'92, 
\i sth\uc0\u257 \u7751 na
\i0  = 
\i sth\uc0\u257 na 
\i0 \'91place\'92, 
\i h\uc0\u299 \u7751 nad\u299 \u7751 \u7751 \u257 
\i0  = 
\i h\uc0\u299 nad\u299 n\u257  \'91
\i0 the wretched and the miserable\'92, 
\i m\uc0\u257 \u7751 na 
\i0 = 
\i m\uc0\u257 na 
\i0 \'91respect\'92, 
\i k\uc0\u257 ru\u7751 na
\i0  = 
\i karu\uc0\u7751 a 
\i0 \'91mercy\'92, 
\i maranna
\i0  = 
\i mara\uc0\u7751 a 
\i0 \'91death\'92, 
\i udy\uc0\u257 \u7751 na
\i0  = 
\i udy\uc0\u257 na 
\i0 \'91expedition\'92,
\i  va\uc0\u7751 na
\i0  = 
\i v\uc0\u257 \u7751 a 
\i0 (
\i b\uc0\u257 \u7751 a
\i0 ) \'91arrow\'92 or
\i  vana 
\i0 \'91forest\'92, 
\i puru\uc0\u347 \u347 a
\i0  = 
\i puru\uc0\u7779 a 
\i0 \'91servant\'92, 
\i \uc0\u7751 rap\u257 
\i0  = 
\i n\uc0\u7771 pa\u7717 
\i0  \'91king\'92, 	
\i manvra\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0  = 
\i manrau\uc0\u7749 
\i0  \'91South\'92, ka\uc0\u347 attri = k\u7779 atriya \'91nobleman\'92,	
\i maddhamag\uc0\u7771 \u257 ma
\i0  = 
\i madhyamagr\uc0\u257 ma 
\i0 \'91Central Village\'92, 
\i mmahn\uc0\u257 kire\u7751 nra
\i0  = 
\i mah\uc0\u257 gir\u299 ndra
\i0  (?) \'91Great king of the mountains/montagnards\'92.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b \cf0 Translation
\b0 \
Om! Homage to \uc0\u346 iva! \

\b (1\'966)
\b0  Hail! There once was a most excellent best of kings, one and only. By his first royal consecration he bore the name Y.P.K. \uc0\u346 r\u299  V\u7771 \u7779 u Vi\u7779 \u7751 uj\u257 ti V\u299 rabhadravarmadeva, the P.P.K of the capital \u7748 auk Glau\u7749  Vijaya. He acceded to the kingdom in \u346 aka seers-fires-fires-form (1337). That [king] was the son of Y.P.K. Jayasi\u7747 havarmadeva, P.P.K. of the V\u7771 \u7779 u dynasty, supreme sovereign of the earth, heroic lion of Camp\u257 .\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs28 \cf0 	
\i pratham\uc0\u257 vi\u347 eka
\i0 : this word seems to be intended as 
\i pratham\uc0\u257 bhi\u7779 eka
\i0  or 
\i pratim\uc0\u257 bhi\u7779 eka
\i0 . Cf. C. 42, l. 11 
\i vri\uc0\u109 \u771  \u347 ilpak\u257 ra
\i0  | 
\i rijan \uc0\u347 ivaprathim\u257 nna
\i0  \'91He instructed an artisan to make a statue (
\i prathim\uc0\u257 nna = pratim\u257 
\i0 ?) of \uc0\u346 iva\'92. The former option seems more likely. Cf. C. 214, l. 4\'966:  
\i y\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  po\u109 \u771  ku \u347 r\u299  v\u7771 \u7779 u vi\u7779 \u7751 uj\u257 tti v\u299 rabhadrava[rm](m)[ade]va | b\u7771 \u7779 uva\u7749 \u7779 a \u257 di p\u363 ra \u7749 gauk glau\u109 \u771  vijaya | pratham\u257 vi\u347 eka di \u347 aka eka-loka-naya-r\u257 ma
\i0  [1323]. 	If so, then we must note the lapse of time between consecration in 1323 and accession in 1337. \
	
\i p\uc0\u363 ra \u7749 auk\'b7 glau\u109 \u771  vijaya
\i0 : On names of the type \'91toponym+Vijaya\'92, see \cf2 Griffiths et al. 2012, p. XXX\cf0 . In various spellings, the element \uc0\u7748 auk Glau\u7749  Vijaya is found also in C. 1, l. 3: 
\i \uc0\u7749 auk\'b7 glau\u109 \u771  vijaya
\i0 ; C. 42, l. 4: 
\i paramap\uc0\u363 ra \u7749 auk glau\u109 \u771  vijaya
\i0 ; C. 214, l. 5 
\i p\uc0\u363 ra \u7749 gauk glau\u109 \u771  vijaya
\i0 ; C. 215, l. 2: 
\i p\uc0\u363 ra ur\u257 \u109 \u771  \u7749 auk glau\u7749  vijaya
\i0 . We suppose that there is no connection here with Vijaya, the capital of late Camp\uc0\u257 , which does seem to be intended with Vijay\u257 pur\u299  in this inscription (face A, l1. 10\'9612 and 18). The word 
\i \uc0\u7749 auk
\i0  means \'91on top, upper\'92 so one might alternatively render \'91upper Glau\uc0\u7749  Vijaya\'92. \

\i 	v\uc0\u299 rasi\u7749 h\u257  campa
\i0 : cf. 
\i v\uc0\u299 rasi\u7749 ha campap\u363 ra
\i0 \'a0in C. 47, l. 3\'964. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b\fs40 \cf0 (6\'969)
\b0  That P.P.K. (Jayasi\uc0\u7747 havarmadeva), his life having come to an end, went to the abode of \u346 iva. The royal consecration for (
\i di
\i0 ?) that foremost son (V\uc0\u299 rabhadravarmadeva) [took place]. He acceded to the kingdom as foremost gratifier of the minds of the Brahmins, Noblemen, Traders, Serfs,
\i  
\i0 the wretched and the miserable, attacker (?), 
\i v\uc0\u299 j\u257 k\u363 ra
\i0 .\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs28 \cf0 	
\i take
\i0 : the same rare word, only known to us from one other inscription (C. 92, face B, l. 3), occurs also in line 14 on this face.\
	Our interpretation of the long sequence as 
\i prathama-brahma-k\uc0\u7779 atriya-vai\u347 ya-\u347 \u363 dra-h\u299 na-d\u299 na-santu\u7779 \u7789 a-m\u257 nasa
\i0  functioning as a long Sanskrit compound is only tentative, rendered problemtic by the fact that it does not clearly obey the rules of Sanskrit nominal composition. Furthermore, reading the similar passage C. 89 B, l. 21\'9622: 
\i caturvvar\uc0\u7751 \u7751 a sida\u7717  br\u257 hma\u7751 a k\u7779 atriya vai\u347 ya \u347 \u363 dra avista ka pramuditam\u257 nasa
\i0 , one would rather expect the sequence to consist of a sequence of words governed by Cam syntax, but this then would render the sentence difficult to construe in our inscription.\
	
\i kra\uc0\u109 \u771 tthi
\i0 : we do not know what this word means. We guess that it derives from Sanskrit 
\i kr\uc0\u257 nti
\i0 , but derivation from 
\i k\uc0\u299 rtti 
\i0 or 
\i k\uc0\u7771 t\u299  
\i0 is also imaginable.\
	
\i v\uc0\u299 j\u257 k\u363 ra
\i0 : we do not know what this word or name means, and are unable to decide whether there may be any connection with the epithet 
\i samastav\uc0\u299 j\u257 \u7749 kura
\i0  in 
\fs30 several other (older) 
\fs28 inscriptions. Cf. in this volume, C. 64 (twice).\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs40 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b \cf0 (9\'9614)
\b0  At that time (
\i pak\uc0\u257 
\i0 ) the king of the Viets led his army going to numerous battles; then (
\i k\uc0\u257 
\i0 ) he made a military array (
\i vy\uc0\u363 ha
\i0 ) near \uc0\u346 r\u299  Vijay\u257 pur\u299 . Because Y.P.K. \u346 ivak\u257 ru\u7751 a, who placed his feet on the great king of the montagnards, namely \u346 r\u299 \u7779 \u7751 ar\u257 jav\u257 ri, all the military commanders, all of the army, who had escaped death, went to the land (of Camp\u257 ?).\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs28 \cf0 	
\i pak\uc0\u257 
\i0 : \cf2 refer to C. 64.\cf0  We suppose this is a cognate of Malay 
\i maka
\i0 , thus far unrecognized in Camp\uc0\u257  epigraphy for previous editors have split 
\i pa k\uc0\u257 
\i0 .\
	
\i \uc0\u257 yuddha
\i0  is not a correct Sanskrit word. It might be interpreted as equivalent to 
\i \uc0\u257 yudha
\i0  \'91weapon\'92 as well as 
\i yuddha
\i0  \'91war\'92. The following parallel makes us inclined towards the second possibility, C. 1, l. 5: 
\i bra\uc0\u7717  k\u257 nda n\u299  yuddha aneka
\i0 .\
	
\i rijan = rajan
\i0 . C. 214, l. 7: 
\i pu po\uc0\u109 \u771  ku k\u257  rijan dhvajakalpa
\i0  and l. 8 
\i rijan \uc0\u347 attaya\'f1\'f1a
\i0 .\
	
\i vyuha
\i0  = 
\i vy\uc0\u363 ha
\i0 . We find certain passages in other inscriptions which seem possibly related. In C. 13, one reads 
\i ya\uc0\u109 \u771 n ativyuha
\i0 ; in C. 92 B 
\i malya\uc0\u7749  ya mah\u257 vy\u363 ha
\i0  and in C. 119 
\i hut\uc0\u257 n ya vy\u363 ha
\i0 .\
	\uc0\u346 ivak\u257 ru\u7751 a: one expects rather \u346 ivak\u257 ra\u7751 a or \u346 ivak\u257 ru\u7751 ya. Maybe this is a posthumous name for Jayasi\u7747 havarmadeva?\
	
\i ku\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0 : in modern Cam, this word functions as a kind of relative pronoun. Maybe there is a connection with the word 
\i kuku\uc0\u109 \u771  
\i0 found in C. 42, l. 8 and in this inscription, face c, l. 6.\
	
\i jak
\i0 : in modern Cam, this word is glossed as \'93panier pour le riz/intelligent, sage, savant, instruit, perspicace, fin, rus\'e9; engager, encourager, imiter, exciter, pousser, exhorter, r\'e9unir; fouler aux pieds, marcher sur, mettre le bout du pieds sur\'94. The last meaning seems fitting here. Cf. also this face, l. 21.\
	
\i mahn\uc0\u257 kire\u7751 r\u257 
\i0 . This word, very frequently occurring in several (thus far unpublished) inscriptions of V\uc0\u299 rabhadravarmadeva, seem to be derived somehow from a word lile 
\i mah\uc0\u257 kir\u257 \u7789 endra 
\i0 or 
\i mah\uc0\u257 gir\u299 ndra. 
\i0 Cf. C. 101, face B, l. 3, 5, 6, 7: 
\i kir\uc0\u257 \u7789 ar\u257 jaga\u7751 a
\i0  \'97 especially l. 6 (cited below), to be compared with l. 20 on this face. Cf. also 
\i kir\uc0\u257 te\u347 vara
\i0  on face B, l. 8 and 
\i m\uc0\u257 kir\u257 te\u347 vara
\i0  (= 
\i mah\uc0\u257 kir\u257 \u7789 e\u347 vara
\i0 ?) at the transition between faces A and B. All these Sanskrit words denote the \'91(great) king of the montagnards\'92.\
	 \uc0\u346 r\u299 \u7779 \u7751 ar\u257 jav\u257 ri: if one may conjecture here \u346 r\u299 gajar\u257 jav\u257 ri, it would be possible to interpret the name as epithet meaning \'91He who was rope for tying down the king of the elephants\'92.\
	
\i do\uc0\u7747  n\u257 yak\u257 yuddha
\i0 : sanskritic sandhi for 
\i n\uc0\u257 yaka \u257 yuddha
\i0 ? Cf. C. 92 face C, l. 2\'963: 
\i aneka n\uc0\u257 yaka kamvujade\u347 a \u7749 an samast\u257 yudha marai m\u7771 su\u7717  sau\u7749  pu 
\i0 ...\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs40 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b \cf0 (14\'9619)
\b0  In \uc0\u346 aka moon-
\i rahutauva
\i0 -king-king-arrows (?), P.P.K. then set out to go to the land of the Viets, and captured slaves, 
\i matr\uc0\u299  
\i0 (a princess?), horses, elephants, much wealth of the king of the Viets. He sent the royal entourage (?, 
\i r\uc0\u257 jagotra
\i0 ) to bring the princess to go and serve P.P.K. He set out and returned to Vijay\uc0\u257 pur\u299 . Over. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\i\fs28 \cf0 	\uc0\u347 a\u347 \u257 \u109 \u771 ka-rahutauva-r\u257 ja-r\u257 ja-v\u257 n(n)a
\i0 : the chronogram is uninterpretable, and we suspect grave errors by the lapicide.\
	
\i pamvra\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0 : the presence of the 
\i v
\i0  here is doubtful; all the more as what appears to be the same word occurs below, spelled 
\i pamra\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0  (B, l. 8). Our interpretation is based on the assumption that we have here a form or forms of the word 
\i pamr\uc0\u417 /pamr\u417 r/pamr\u333 
\i0  (Aymonier & Cabaton 1906, p. 275). Cf. C. 42, line 7: 
\i papam\uc0\u7771 \u109 \u771 
\i0  (cf. Old Khmer 
\i pamre
\i0 ?).\
	
\i dhai
\i0 : we have not found this word in any dictionary. In three of its occurrences elsewhere (C. 90, face D, l. 13\'9614; C. 92, face B, l. 10), it occurs in the pair 
\i dhai vriy
\i0 ; twice it occurs on its own (C. 92, face B, l. 16; face C, l. 2). In all those context, the combined or simple expression can apparently be rendered by \'91to send\'92.\
	
\i samp\uc0\u363 r\u7751 a
\i0 : This word normally has its original lexical Sanskrit meaning \'91full, completed, perfect\'92 when it occurs in Cam inscriptions, but this meaning does not seem to fit in the present context. We therefore speculate that it bears here a meaning close to that which the word 
\i \cf2 thampurran\uc0\u333 
\i0 \cf0  has in modern Cam (Aymonir & Cabaton 1906, p. 204: \'93plein, complet, achev\'e9; fini, termin\'e9; mort, d\'e9funt\'94). Perhaps it served as a grammaticalized marker of the completeness of the actions expressed by the preceding verbs.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs40 \cf2 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b \cf0 (19\'9622) 
\b0 At that time he ordered the ministers of 
\i kar\uc0\u257 vv
\i0  of all the domains (
\i bha\uc0\u7751 \u7693 \u257 ra
\i0 ) to include in their rounds the great king of the montagnards in Madhyamagr\uc0\u257 ma. P.P.K. set out upwards
\i  
\i0 to go and place his feet on \uc0\u346 r\u299  Gajar\u257 ja 
\i gvac
\i0  great king of the montagnards 
\i lo
\i0 .\cf2 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs28 \cf0 	
\i ma\uc0\u7751 tr\u299  
\i0 < Sanskrit 
\i mantrin
\i0 .\
	
\i kar\uc0\u257 vv
\i0 : Aymonier & Cabaton (1906, p. 64) have registered the word 
\i kar\uc0\u257 v
\i0  as meaning \'91alms (?)\'92; apparently they were not sure about the meaning. We guess that there may be a connection with the Sanskrit word 
\i kara
\i0  \'91tax\'92. Cf. e.g. in this catalogue, C. 64, l. 7: 
\i karad\uc0\u257 
\i0  \'91paying tax\'92.\
	
\i bha\uc0\u7751 \u7693 \u257 ra
\i0 : on this word, borrowed from Sanskrit (\cf2 cite also Sircar, 
\i Indian epigr. glossary
\i0 \cf0 ), see Finot 1904: 915 (= 
\i EEPC
\i0 , p. 97). The meaning seems to be a bit different from the obviously related word 
\i bendahara
\i0  in Malay, which denotes a \'91treasurer\'92 or \'91overseer of store-room\'92.\
	
\i mavv\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771 
\i0 : this word, not attested in any other inscription as far, might be related to Malay 
\i uang/wang
\i0 , \'91a type of coin; money\'92; but our translation is based on the idea that it is a prefixed form of the verb 
\i va\uc0\u7749 
\i0  that still exists in modern Cam (Aymonier & Cabaton 1906, p. 454).\

\i 	maddhamag\uc0\u7771 \u257 ma
\i0 : this must be a spelling variant of the toponym Madhyamagr\uc0\u257 ma that figures also in C. 101, face B, cited just below.\

\i 	tu\uc0\u7749 go
\i0 : thus word may be compared, perhaps, with
\i  tu\uc0\u7749 auk/ta\u7749 auk
\i0  \'91upper, upwards\'92 (cf. 
\i \uc0\u7749 gauk
\i0  in C. 214, l. 5 cited above, and 
\i \uc0\u7749 auk
\i0  just below). Despite the lack of final 
\i \uc0\u7717 
\i0 , it is certainly the same word as 
\i tu\uc0\u7749 go\u7717 
\i0  in the following passage (C. 101, face B, l. 6\'967), which shows striking thematic similarities with this passage in our inscription:\
\pard\pardeftab708\qj

\f1\i \cf0 kir\uc0\u257 
\f0 \uc0\u7789 
\f1 ar\uc0\u257 jaga
\f0 \uc0\u7751 
\f1 a paputau va
\f0 \uc0\u7749 
\f1 \uc0\u347 ar\u257 ja ya d\u257 r\u257 nuja adiy\'b7 s\u257 
\f0 \uc0\u109 \u771 
\f1  driy\'b7 di nagara madhyamagr\uc0\u257 ma mula
\f0 \uc0\u7749 \'b7 
\f1 y\uc0\u257 
\f0 \uc0\u109 \u771 
\f1  (po ku) [\uc0\u347 r\u299  jaya]harivarmmadeva v\u257  vala tu
\f0 \uc0\u7749 
\f1 go
\f0 \uc0\u7717 
\f1  m
\f0 \uc0\u7771 
\f1 su
\f0 \uc0\u7717 
\f1  vunu
\f0 \uc0\u7717 
\f1  va
\f0 \uc0\u7749 
\f1 \uc0\u347 ar\u257 ja di jvak\'b7 mak\'b7 kir\u257 
\f0 \uc0\u7789 
\f1 aga
\f0 \uc0\u7751 
\f1 a dinan\'b7 nd\uc0\u257 (p)\'b7 avista
\i0  \'91
\f0 The kings of the montagnards in turn (?, 
\i mula\uc0\u7749 
\i0 ) proclaimed king his brother-in-law Va\uc0\u7747 \u347 ar\u257 ja, younger brother of his wife, in the land of Madhyamagr\u257 ma. Y.P.K. \u346 r\u299  Jayaharivarmadeva led the troops upwards to combat and kill Va\u7747 \u347 ar\u257 ja while stamping out and capturing these montagnards, and crush all of them\'92.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj
\cf0 	
\i gajar\uc0\u257 ja
\i0 : cf. the synonymous 
\i dviradar\uc0\u257 ja
\i0  in C. 92, face A, l. 18.\
	
\i gvac
\i0 : this word occurs rather frequently in the (thus far unpublished) inscriptions of V\uc0\u299 rabhadravarmadeva (C. 42, C, 57, C. 225). Its meaning is not clear.\
	
\i lo
\i0 : this word is attested in modern Cam, in the meaning \'91much\'92.\
	
\i vana\uc0\u109 \u771 k
\i0 : cf. 
\i vana[\uc0\u109 \u771 ]k
\i0  in C. 7.2, l. 7, which seems to be equivalent to modern Cam 
\i ban\cf2 a\cf0 k
\i0  \'91dam\'92 (Aymonier & Cabaton 1906, p. 324; see also \cf2 Lepoutre, forthcoming\cf0 , for a new edition of the inscription C. 7). The word is derived by a nasal infix from the base 
\i va\uc0\u109 \u771 k
\i0 , that we see also in the causative form 
\i pa-va\uc0\u109 \u771 k
\i0  in the contemporary inscription C. 42 (l. 5), and find as such here in face c, l. 9.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs40 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b \cf0 (A22\'96B3)
\b0   At the time that he 
\i gvac
\i0  on top one dam, Kir\uc0\u257 \u7789 e\u347 vara P.P.K. with his divine form (?, conjecture 
\i devar\uc0\u363 pa
\i0 ) and intelligence (
\i mati
\i0 ) protected the kingdom of his majesty (V\uc0\u299 rabhadravarmadeva) in the forest, all the time. He reigned free of evil, and became famous in this world and the next world.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs28 \cf0 	
\i rak\uc0\u7779 \u257  r\u257 ja
\i0 : cf. C. 30 A1, l. 2 
\i rak\uc0\u7779 \u257  r\u257 jya
\i0 . We presume 
\i r\uc0\u257 ja = r\u257 jya
\i0 .\
	It is not certain that Kir\uc0\u257 \u7789 e\u347 vara here denotes a human, but if it does, then presumably it denotes the same figure as the \'91great king of the montagnards\'92 (face c, l. 1). It may also be the name of a deity; if so, these sentences would have to be translated as an invocation: \'91May he protect ..., may he rule ..., may he become famous ...\'92.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs40 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b \cf0 (3\'967) 
\b0 Thereupon P.P.K. 
\i kamvac 
\i0 a well for a\cf2  \cf0 hospice; 
\i pavvak
\i0  an 
\i anvak
\i0 ; gave it the name \'91King\'92s well\'92. He also had these three roads built to resemble [those in] the land below. He took (
\i ri\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0 ) these domains of the forest, of the river; 
\i tral\uc0\u257 y 
\i0 of gold, wishing to endow the Khmer side too (
\i tr\uc0\u257 
\i0 ). He also went to endow all the other domains.
\fs28 \
	Our interpretation of this paragraph is particularly doubtful, being not much more than an attempt to translate every word.\
	
\i kamvac
\i0 : the meaning of this word is unknown to us; maybe there is a connection with 
\i gvac
\i0  (face A, ll. 21\'9622).\
	
\i tuva\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0 : cf. modern Cam
\i  tuba\uc0\u7749  = taba\u7749 
\i0  \'91natural pond, tub, well\'92.\
	
\i pavvak
\i0  
\i anvak
\i0 : 
\i anvak
\i0  denotes some kind of structure. Cf. C. 82, l. 2: ... 
\i ra pa\uc0\u7749 ap anvak tumvr\u257 
\i0 k ...; l. 3: ... 
\i ra pa\uc0\u7749 ap anvak pirak
\i0  ...; C. 94, face A, l.\'a014: 
\i a\uc0\u7749 gap anvak kumvrak
\i0 ; face B, l. 10\'9611: 
\i si rahatap (p)ra(s\uc0\u257 )da \u7749 an anvak
\i0 ; C. 214, l. 10\'9611: 
\i dudi\uc0\u109 \u771  pu po\u109 \u771  ku k\u257 ma puna\u7717  vumvo\u109 \u771  pavvak\'b7 anvak
\i0 . The word 
\i pavvak
\i0 , seen in the same syntactic construction in this last passage, must be a verb denoting an action related to such a structure. No evident correpondent in modern Cam can be identified: \'91to cause to return\'92 (= mod. Cam pavak, Aymonier & Cabaton 1906, p.\'a0284)? Or \'91to attach\'92 (?, = mod. 
\i pavak
\i0 , 
\i ibid
\i0 ., p.\'a0283).\
	
\i a(dh)v\uc0\u257 
\i0 : the reading is uncertain, but given the presence of the Cam word 
\i jal\uc0\u257 n
\i0  in the context, and the proclivity of Cam inscriptions to use dyads of synonyms, we propose to read 
\i adhv\uc0\u257 
\i0 , which would be a borrowed Sanskrit word of the same meaning.\
	
\i bha\uc0\u7751 \u7693 \u257 ra vana\u7717 
\i0 : this may be an equivalent to 
\i bha\uc0\u7751 \u7693 \u257 ra glai
\i0  (in C. 3.2, l. 3).\
	
\i tral\uc0\u257 y 
\i0 (variant spelling 
\i tral\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771 
\i0 ): on this cult instrument, see \cf2 Lepoutre, forthcoming.\cf0  The reading of this entire passage is very doubtful, and it seems the lapicide was copying without much understanding or diligence from a manuscript copy. One would initially read rather pral\uc0\u257 y but this is not a known word. The following reading m\u257 \u7717  is also hypothetical, and relies on the assumption that tral\u257 y is the correct reading (for this word is almost always followed by 
\i pirak
\i0  \'91silver\'92 or m\uc0\u257 \u7717  \'91gold\'92).\
	
\i makan\uc0\u257 
\i0 : we presume that this is equivalent to 
\i makn\uc0\u257  
\i0 (cf. Malay 
\i kena
\i0 , 
\i mengenakan
\i0 ?).\

\fs38 \

\b\fs40 (7\'969)
\b0  The time of the foundation of this Caitra was in (the year of) the \uc0\u346 aka king king-worlds-arrows-mountains (i.e. 1357). He gave to the Caitra of Kir\u257 te\u347 vara P.P.K. an endowment of servants.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\i\fs28 \cf0 	sth\uc0\u257 ppa
\i0  we understand this as meaning
\i  sth\uc0\u257 pan\u257 
\i0 .\
	
\i cai(t)tra
\i0 : the name of the month Caitra does not fit here. We suppose the word may perhaps be some kind of contamination of 
\i caitya
\i0  and 
\i k\uc0\u7779 etra
\i0 . What is clear, is that it must denote a kind of monument or image. The reading here seems to be 
\i caiktra
\i0 , but we retain 
\i cai(t)tra
\i0  since this seems to be the reading on faces c and d.\
	
\i pamra\uc0\u109 \u771 \u109 \u771 
\i0 : cf. face c, l. 9 
\i pamv\uc0\u7771 \u109 \u771 \u109 \u771 .
\i0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs40 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b \cf0 (9\'9615)
\b0  This is all the wealth of offerings to the god: a 
\i kralauk
\i0  of gold weighing 2 tael; a small box of gold [weighing] 1 tael; a 
\i \uc0\u347 va\u109 \u771 n 
\i0 of silver [weighing] 18 tael; a 
\i tral\uc0\u257 y
\i0  of silver [weighing] 13 tael; a 
\i dya\uc0\u109 \u771 p
\i0  of silver [weighing] 8 tael; a vase of silver [weighing] 20 tael; a pitcher of silver [weighing] 3 tael; an 
\i uk
\i0  of silver [weighing] 2 tael; four platters of silver [weighing] 4 tael; (an unreadable number of) silver 
\i c\uc0\u257 n
\i0  for incense [weighing] 2 tael; a 
\i \cf2 li 
\i0 \cf0 [weighing] 8 
\i dram
\i0 ; one small box of silver [weighing] 1 tael; one 
\i kralauk
\i0  of silver [weighing] 2 tael; one necklace of silver [weighing] 10 tael.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs28 \cf0 	
\i kralauk
\i0 : this must be the same as the word that is spelled 
\i kalauk
\i0  in C. 47, l. 15; the published reading 
\i kalaup
\i0  in C. 31, face B, l. 4 is doubtless an error of the lapicide (or epigraphist) for the same. The translation \'91aigui\'e8re\'92 used at 
\i \cf2 EEPC
\i0 , p. 179\cf0 , without any note, seems pure guess work.\
	
\i vanna \'92n\uc0\u257 k
\i0 : in published editions of Old Cam inscriptions, this sequence has been represented as 
\i vanna-\uc0\u257 k
\i0 , but the spelling here is with 
\i n
\i0  subscript to ak\uc0\u7779 ara 
\i \uc0\u257 
\i0 . In the Soci\'e9t\'e9 Asiatique\'92s copy of Aymonier & Cabaton 1906, facing p. 1, several relevant passages are cited. The word obviously means \'91weighing\'92.\
	
\i klau\uc0\u7749 
\i0 : see 
\i \cf2 ECIC IV
\i0 \cf0 .\
	
\i \uc0\u347 va\u109 \u771 n
\i0 : an undetermined cult object figuring also in a list at C. 47, l. 13 and perhaps in C. 94, face A, l. 19.\
	
\i tral\uc0\u257 y
\i0 : see note above.\
	
\i dya\uc0\u109 \u771 p
\i0 : \'91compartiment chique \'e0 b\'e9tel\'92;\cf2  \cf0 the Soci\'e9t\'e9 Asiatique\'92s copy of Aymonier & Cabaton 1906, facing p. 230, cites this gloss as provided by father Durand. The word is attested also in C. 31A1, l. 13.\
	
\i bhri\uc0\u7749 g\u257 ra
\i0 : variant spelling for the common word
\i  bh\uc0\u7771 \u7749 g\u257 ra
\i0 , attested at C. 30 B3, l. 10
\i  r\uc0\u363 pyamayabh\u7771 \u7749 g\u257 ra
\i0 ; C. 31A2, l. 10: 
\i kamvujarajatabh\uc0\u7771 \u7749 g\u257 ra\u347 
\i0 ; C. 38, face B, 7; C. 95, face B, l. 11; C. 142, st. XX and face B, l. 18.\
	
\i uk
\i0 : the meaning of this word, not know to us from any other inscription, is not determinable exactly.\
	
\i suvauk
\i0 : see 
\i \cf2 ECIC
\i0  IV\cf0 .\
	
\i vau\uc0\u7717 
\i0 : this is modern Cam 
\i bau\uc0\u7717 
\i0 ; nominal classifier for round (?) objects.\cf2  Look up Moussay for his definition of its function\cf0 . Not represented in translation.\
	
\i c\uc0\u257 n
\i0 : the word is unknown elsewhere, and the reading not entirely certain. We suppose the word is the same as 
\i c\uc0\u257 n
\i0 , attested in Old Khmer (\cf2 Pou\cf0  2004, 163), but obviously our 
\i c\uc0\u257 n
\i0  cannot be made of earthenware.\
	
\i li
\i0 : we do not know what this word denotes.\
	
\i gra\uc0\u7747 
\i0 : this is an error of the lapicide for 
\i dra\uc0\u7747 
\i0 , on which word, see EEPC p. 207; cf. also C. 6 l. 2; C. 30 A3 l. 2, 5, 6 et 7; C. 31 A1 l. 12; C. 31 B l. 3 et 7; C. 82 l. 5 (two occurrences), 6 and 8. \
	
\i sralau\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0 : we presume that 
\i sralau\uc0\u109 \u771  = pralau\u109 \u771 
\i0 ; see the Soci\'e9t\'e9 Asiatique\'92s copy of Aymonier & Cabaton 1906, facing p. 293. 
\i \cf2 ECIC
\i0  IV\cf0 . \cf2 Check all cases of 
\i tralau\uc0\u109 \u771 /tralau\u7749 
\i0  too\cf0 .\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b\fs40 \cf0 (16\'9621) 
\b0 There are these rice fields which he cleared and gave to this Caitra: rice-field 
\i bvar
\i0  
\i pand\uc0\u299 p 
\i0 at Ata\uc0\u109 \u771  Vvil [producing] 110 
\i j\uc0\u257 k 
\i0 of grains; one more rice-field 
\i bvar pand\uc0\u299 p 
\i0 at Lumven, 170 [
\i j\uc0\u257 k
\i0 ] of grains; rice-field 
\i bvar la\uc0\u7749 \u299 k
\i0  at Lumven, 250 [
\i j\uc0\u257 k
\i0 ] of grains; one more rice-field 
\i bvar la\uc0\u7749 \u299 k 
\i0 at the citadel
\i  
\i0 Akauvv, 200 [
\i j\uc0\u257 k
\i0 ] of grains; one more rice-field 
\i bvar la\uc0\u7749 \u299 k 
\i0 at Tanvantar\uc0\u257 \u7749 \u347 \u257 ri\u7717 , 2800 [
\i j\uc0\u257 k
\i0 ] of grains.
\b \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b0\fs28 \cf0 	
\i s(i) vu\uc0\u7717  ni cai(t)tra
\i0 : the positions of 
\i ni 
\i0 and 
\i di
\i0  is a bit surprising, and one would feel more comfortable if their positions were reversed. Perhaps we are dealing with a scribal error. However, we note that a similar construction is found in C. 218, l. 1: 
\i n\uc0\u299  m\u363 la hum\u257  s(i) vu\u7717  ni devat\u257  ni h(u)m\u257 
\i0 .\
	
\i ata\uc0\u109 \u771  vvil
\i0 : the meaning of this word is unknown. \cf2 See 
\i ECIC
\i0  IV\cf0 . The word vvil apparently denotes a type of rice-field in C. 106, face B, l. 16.\
	
\i vijai\uc0\u7717 
\i0 : see 
\i \cf2 ECIC
\i0  IV\cf0 . This is the only case known to use where the terms 
\i j\uc0\u257 k
\i0  and 
\i vijai\uc0\u7717 
\i0  are used side by side to indicate the agricultural potential of a single rice-field.\
	
\i la\uc0\u7749 \u299 k
\i0 : it would also be possible to read
\i  l\uc0\u299 \u7749 ak
\i0  all three times.\
	
\i s\uc0\u257  sth\u257 \u7751 na
\i0 : the syllable 
\i \uc0\u7751 na 
\i0 is nowhere preserved clearly, but this is a standard expression (more commonly spelled 
\i s\uc0\u257  sth\u257 na
\i0 ) so the restitution is certain. We presume 
\i sth\uc0\u257 na
\i0  functions as numeral classifier and do not translate it literally.\
	
\i tanvantar\uc0\u257 \u7749 \u347 \u257 ri\u7717 
\i0 : we hesitantly take this entire sequence together as one unit, a place name in the form of a long Sanskrit compound apparently meaning \'91Whose enemy is the portion inside the body\'92.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs38 \cf0 \

\b\fs40 (21\'9623)
\b0  And [men of] Camp\uc0\u257  whom he ordered to reside here in the highlands, with Laos, Viets, Khmers, Siamese, Javanese, Bengalis: all of them 170. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs28 \cf0 	
\i vu\uc0\u7717 
\i0 : the restoration is uncertain, but seems supported by C. 94, face B, l. 8\'969: 
\i ya do\uc0\u7747  y\u257 \u7749  si pu po\u109 \u771  tana ray\u257  dhiluv k\u257  vu\u7717  dauk di bhand\u257 ra y\u257 \u7749  po ku \u347 r\u299 \u347 \u257 nabhadre\u347 vara n\u299 
\i0 , and C. 5, l. 11 and 16; C. 30 B1, l. 3.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs40 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b \cf0 (B23\'96c23)
\b0  And the great king of the montagnards of Hay\uc0\u257 v reigned (or: enjoyed?) twenty-three ... and a form ... bear the name \u346 r\u299  V\u7771 \u7779 uva\u7747 \u347 \u257 di the Southern Cam. The divine mother, who (
\i ja
\i0 ) is successful, of good nature, 
\i mahn\uc0\u257 kata
\i0 , of perfect features possessed nineteen 
\i kuku\uc0\u109 \u771 . 
\i0 She gave the name Bva...ramattata\uc0\u7749 ga (?). P.P.K. made a dam in the Hay\u257 v river of the South. He cleared ... the rice-fields. He erected the ... of the king. He offered the remaining Viets, male and female, who had been captured, more than three thousand. ... beautiful 
\i sva\uc0\u109 \u771 n
\i0 , 
\i v\uc0\u299 j\u257 k\u363 ra
\i0  name Sakra\uc0\u109 \u771 tthi. P.P.K. set out, returned, the great king of the montagnards ... the city of ??r\u257  and all ... domains which the great king of the montagnards possesses. Because 
\i rigan\uc0\u299 
\i0  ... Sakra\uc0\u109 \u771 tthi different dams ... abode of \u346 iva along ... erect this Caitra.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs28 \cf0 	We are unable to propose a coherent translation of this face.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs40 \cf0 	
\i\fs28 hay\uc0\u257 vv
\i0 : this word, apparently a toponym, occurs also (twice) in C. 42, l. 5. \
	
\i b\uc0\u7771 va\u7779 asr\u257 di
\i0 : we presume this a grave error of the lapicide for
\i  v\uc0\u7771 \u7779 uva\u7749 \u347 a \u257 di
\i0 , for we read in C. 214, l. 5: 
\i b\uc0\u7771 \u7779 uva\u7749 \u7779 a \u257 di
\i0 .\
	
\i cam\'b7
\i0 : if the reading is correct, it is surprising to see the word spelt with 
\i m\'b7
\i0  and not with 
\i \uc0\u7747 
\i0 . Even the latter form is found only in one other inscription known to us (C. 213).\
	
\i y\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  in\u257  ja (si)ddhi
\i0 : we do not understand who the various elements of the text are to be construed here, but note the close parallel in C. 42, l. 7 
\i y\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  pu in\u257  ja siddhi
\i0 .\
	
\i mahn\uc0\u257 kata
\i0 : this presumably is some Sanskrit word in Cam guise, but we do not know which word.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\i \cf0 	kuku\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0 : we do not know what this word means, but we note its occurrence in an apparently related context in C. 42, ll. 7\'968: 
\i pu po\uc0\u109 \u771  ku yv\u257  vri\u109 \u771  kirendra dv\u257  plu\u7717  kuku\u109 \u771  ka pu po\u109 \u771  ku gvac
\i0 . Before having identified this parallel, we read 
\i supu\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0 : the Soci\'e9t\'e9 Asiatique\'92s copy of Aymonier & Cabaton 1906, facing p. 487, cites personal names with 
\i sup\uc0\u363 y
\i0  and 
\i supu\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0 , apparently from unpublished inscriptions that have not yet come before our eyes. We do not know what the word means either.\
	
\i pada\uc0\u109 \u771 \u7749  r\u257 ja\{2\}
\i0 : it seems likely that some word like 
\i r\uc0\u257 jag\u7771 ha
\i0  or 
\i r\uc0\u257 jabhavana
\i0  must be restored here, corresponding to C. 42, l. 10 
\i pada(\uc0\u109 \u771 )\u7749 \'b7 ruma\u7717 
\i0 . The word pada\uc0\u7749  here seems to be a causative verb-form. However, there are also passages where the word looks like it may be related to Malay 
\i padang
\i0  \'91plains\'92, such as C. 31 C1, l. 2:
\i  hum\uc0\u257  di hum\u257  pad\u257 \u7749  [...] nan hum\u257  pad\u257 \u7749  100 j\u257 k \u7749 an tando\u7749 
\i0 ; C. 89 A, l. 18; C. 90 D, l. 13
\i  hum\uc0\u257  pad\u257 \u7749  avi\u7717 
\i0 .\
	
\i luvai\uc0\u7717 
\i0 : cf. in this catalogue, C. 64, l. 8.\
	
\i v\uc0\u299 j\u257 [k\u363 ra]
\i0 : conjecturally restored by comparison with face A, l. 9.\

\i 	(s)va\uc0\u109 \u771 n
\i0 : The meaning of this word is unknown, but it is clear from the contexts where it occurs that it denotes some kind of person. See C. 86.2, ll. 7\'968 
\i bh\uc0\u257 ja la\u7749 guv 1 vadala 2 sva\u109 \u771 n 1 kvir 1 lakiy 1 krumviy
\i0  and C. 213 face B, l. 16:
\i  khva\uc0\u109 \u771 l mauk sva\u109 \u771 n 4 dri\u109 \u771 
\i0  |.\
	
\i sakra\uc0\u109 \u771 tthi
\i0 : We find similar words \'97 apparently names \'97 in C. 1, l. 5\'967: 
\i je\uc0\u109 \u771  nagara campa di \u347 aka loka a\u7779 \u7789 \u257 rdhanala\u7717  \u7751 rapa\u7717  sakra\u109 \u771 ttha tribhavan\u257 kr\u257 nta n\u299 
\i0  and C. 118 
\i po\uc0\u109 \u771  y\u257 \u109 \u771  pu r\u257 ja bhagavanta au\u109 \u771  sakr\u257 nta ur\u257 \u109 \u771  mand\u257 vijaya
\i0 . We furthermore find 
\i pak\uc0\u7771 (\u109 \u771 )tta
\i0  in C. 42, l. 10, but there we seem to have a causative form derived respectively from Sanskrit 
\i k\uc0\u7771 ta 
\i0 \'91made\'92. See also this face, ll. 20\'9621. The readings are everywhere rather problematic. \
	
\i udy\uc0\u257 \u7751 na va(la)
\i0 : one is accustomed to seeing the verb 
\i v\uc0\u257 
\i0  between these two words.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs40 \cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\b \cf0 (d1\'969)
\b0  The name of the holy place is Bhagit. He captured elephants-bulls, elephant-cows, horses, cattle, buffaloes, offerings, servants of this Caitra which was a religious foundation (
\i dharma
\i0 ). This is all the property of the Khmer land 
\i si bhara\uc0\u109 \u771 
\i0  deity. He ordered what he had taken straight away to be brought and go to the profit of the property. He ordered the servants to inhabit this Caitra.\cf2 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj

\fs28 \cf0 	
\i (th)\uc0\u299 rtatna
\i0 : we hesitantly conjecture that this is equivalent to Sanskrit 
\i t\uc0\u299 rtha
\i0 .\
	
\i pa(pa)\uc0\u109 \u771 mvra\u109 \u771 
\i0 : cf. C. 42, l. 7 
\i papam\uc0\u7771 \u109 \u771 \u109 \u771 
\i0 . See also in the present inscription, face B, l. 8 and this face, l. 9.
\f2 \uc0\u8232 
\f0\fs40 \
}