{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red251\green2\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c100000\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c25279\c100000;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22200\viewh7560\viewkind0
\deftab708
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 C. 43 Stela of Dra\uc0\u7749  Lai\
\
EFEO estampages: 267, n.\'a0510, n. \cf2 ****\'96****\cf0 .\
\
References: Louis Finot, N\'e9crologie. Prosper Odend\'92hal, 
\f1\i BEFEO
\f0\i0  4 (1904), p. 535; Henri Parmentier, vol. I, p. 562\'96563; Louis Finot, \'93Notes d\'92\'e9pigraphie XIV: Les inscriptions du Mus\'e9e de Hanoi\'94, 
\f1\i BEFEO
\f0\i0  15.2 (1915), pp. 13\'9614,  [
\f1\i EEPC
\f0\i0 , pp. 179\'96180]; Majumdar, p. 223, No. 119; Golzio, p. 199; Schweyer 2008, p. 226.\
	Finot 1904: \'93M. Odend\'92hal ne r\'e9ussit pas \'e0 se faire montrer un \'ab tr\'e9sor cham \'bb en d\'e9p\'f4t au village de Palei Viah. Il rel\'e8ve le temple d\'e9j\'e0 connu de Yang Mum, \'e0 peu de distance \'e0 l\'92Ouest du poste, et estampe \'e0 nouveau les deux inscriptions de ce monument, grav\'e9es, l\'92une sur une st\'e8le, l\'92autre au dos d\'92un \'c7iva, toutes deux contemporaines de l'inscription de Bien-hoa (XIVe si\'e8cle \'e7.). Il apprend en outre que ces pierres proviennent d\'92un autre temple appel\'e9 Drang Lai, situ\'e9 \'e0 4 kilom\'e8tres \'e0 l\'92\uc0\u1054 . du premier. Ce second \'e9difice est situ\'e9 au S. de l\'92emplacement actuel du village jara\'ef de Bu\'f4n-D\'ea\'a0: il n\'92en reste plus aujourd'hui qu'un soubassement en limonite et un mince amas de briques.\'94\
	Parmentier, p. 562: \'93
\f2\b Sanctuaire de Dra\uc0\u7749  Lai
\f0\b0 . \'97 Les ruines de cet \'e9difice se trouvent \'e0 4 kilom\'e8tres \'e0 l\'92O. des tours Ya\uc0\u7749  Mum et \'e0 150 m\'e8tres au S. de l\'92emplacement qu\'92occupait en 1904 le village Jara\'ef de Buon D\u275 . On n\'92y voit plus, d\'92apr\'e8s Odend\'92hal, qu\'92un soubassement en limonite d\'92environ 25 m\'e8tres, et un mince amas de briques. 
\f2\b Une st\'e8le et un \'c7iva inscrit, qui s\'92y trouvaient, furent transport\'e9s \'e0 Ya\uc0\u7749  Mum
\f0\b0 .\'94\

\f2\b 	
\f0\b0 Parmentier, p. 563:
\f2\b  
\f0\b0 \'93
\f2\b Inscriptions de Dran Lai.
\f0\b0  \'97 La dalle en tr\'e8fle pointu qui forme fond \'e0 la figure de \'c7iva est inscrite de 14 lignes en cam; hauteur, 0 m. 57; lon-gueur, 0 m. 60; donation religieuse (XIVe si\'e8cle \'e7aka). La st\'e8le est inscrite sur une des grandes faces et sur les petites. A : hauteur, 0 m. 95; largeur, 0 m. 31 ; invocation plus 22 lignes. B : hauteur, 0 m. 95; largeur, 0 m. 15 ; 23 lignes. C : hauteur, 0 m. 38; largeur, 0 m. 17, 9 lignes. En cam. M\'eame sens et m\'eame date que celles de Ya\uc0\u7749  Pron. Ces deux pierres sont d\'e9pos\'e9es \'e0 Yan Mum, pr\'e8s du poste de Cheo Reo.\'94\
	
\f1\i BEFEO
\f0\i0  27 (1927), p. 460: \'93Le Mus\'e9e a re\'e7u par les soins du R\'e9sident de Kontum les sculptures et inscriptions provenant de Dra\uc0\u7749 -lai et de Ya\u7749  Mum qui avaient \'e9t\'e9 group\'e9es \'e0 la R\'e9sidence. C\'92est ainsi que la grande statue de \'c7iva qui tr\'f4nait sur l\'92autel du temple de Ya\u7749  Mum (
\f1\i IC.,
\f0\i0  I, p. 561), le \'c7iva sur Nandin, le petit \'c7iva assis devant un chevet inscrit au dos, et la st\'e8le inscrite sur trois faces (
\f1\i ibid
\f0\i0 ., p. 562, Liste C\'9cd\'e8s, C. 42-43), ces trois derni\'e8res pi\'e8ces provenant de Dra\uc0\u7749 -lai, ont trouv\'e9 au Mus\'e9e un asile plus s\'fbr que celui qu\'92il avait \'e9t\'e9 possible de leur assurer jusqu\'92ici. Il est inqui\'e9tant que l\'92envoi de Kontum ne comprenne ni la \'ab statue de femme en pri\'e8re \'bb provenant du B\u417 mo\u7745  Ya\u7749  du village de Pl\'ea Wao (
\f1\i IC
\f0\i0 ., I, p. 584), ni la cuve \'e0 ablutions de Kon Klor. Ces deux pierres se trouvaient encore \'e0 la R\'e9sidence de Kontum au passage de M. Henri Maspero en 1919 (
\f1\i BE.
\f0\i0 , XIX, v, 103-104) et de M. Louis Finot en d\'e9cembre 1925.\'94\
	See also Louis Finot in 
\f1\i BEFEO
\f0\i0  28, p. 291: \'93En 1915, j\'92ai donn\'e9 dans le 
\f1\i Bulletin
\f0\i0  (XV, 11, 12-13) le texte d\'92une inscription de Binh-dinh et des extraits de deux inscriptions de Cheo Reo. Elles forment avec celles de Bi\'ean-ho\'e0 (
\f1\i BE
\f0\i0 ., IV, 687) et de Nui Ben Lang (Aymonier, 
\f1\i JA
\f0\i0 ., janvier-f\'e9vrier 1891) 
\f2\b un groupe de documents qui se compl\'e8tent et se contr\'f4lent
\f0\b0 \'94.\
\
\

\f2\b Text (Arlo Griffiths & Amandine Lepoutre)
\f0\b0 \
Only \'93the first lines\'94 of this inscription were published by Louis Finot, without line indications: \
	svasti || mad\uc0\u257  paramar\u257 jo tau\u7747  (?) sa drei prathama r\u257 j\u257  vi\u347 e\u7779 a d\u7771 \u7749  n\u257 ma y\u257 \u7749  p\'f5 ku \u347 r\u299  v\u7771 \u7779 u vi\u7779 \u7751 uj\u257 tti v\u299 ra bhadravarmmadeva pu p\'f5 ku pura \u7749 auk glau\u7749  vijaya d\u7771 \u7749  r\u257 ja di \u347 aka ... (date illisible).\
	 Anne-Val\'e9rie Schweyer recently published a slightly more extensive extract: \

\f2\b 	(1)
\f0\b0  svasti || mad\uc0\u257  paramar\u257 jo tau\u7747  sa drei prathama 
\f2\b (2)
\f0\b0  r\uc0\u257 j\u257  vi\u347 e\u7779 a d\u7771 \u7749  n\u257 ma y\u257 \u7749  po ku \u347 r\u299  v\u7771 \u7779 u vi\u7779 \u7751 uj\u257 tti v\u299 ra bhadra
\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0 varmmadeva pu po ku pura \uc0\u7749 auk glau\u7749  vijaya d\u7771 \u7749  r\u257 ja di \u347 aka 
\f2\b (4)
\f0\b0  n\uc0\u299  \'85 1322 \'85 an\u257 k\'85 y\u257 \u7749  pu ku \u7777 r\u299  
\f2\b (5)
\f0\b0  jaya si\uc0\u7749 havarmmadeva.\
	Our reading was established by repeated study of the estampages n. 510, and reverification directly from the stone at the Museum, followed by a final reverification using the newly made estampages n. \cf2 ****\'96****\cf0 .\
\
Face A\
	au\uc0\u7747  \u7751 ama \u347 iv\u257 ya\

\f2\b (1)
\f0\b0  [fleuron] svasti | mad\uc0\u257  paramar\u257 jotauma sa d\u7771 i\u109 \u771  prathamar\u257 j\u257 -\

\f2\b (2)
\f0\b0  vi\uc0\u347 eka d\u7771 \u109 \u771  n\u257 ma y\u257 \u109 \u771  po\u109 \u771  ku \u347 r\u299 v\u7771 \u7779 uvi\u7779 \u7751 uj\u257 tti v\u299 rabhadra-\

\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0  varmmadeva pu po\uc0\u109 \u771  ku p\u363 ra \u7749 auk\'b7 glau\u109 \u771  vijaya d\u7771 \u109 \u771  r\u257 ja di \u347 aka \

\f2\b (4)
\f0\b0  sida\uc0\u7717  \u7771 \u347 i-p\u257 vaka-agni-r\u363 pa | dunan\'b7 s\u363 \u7751 u y\u257 \u109 \u771  po\u109 \u771  ku \u347 r\u299 \

\f2\b (5)
\f0\b0  jayas\uc0\u299 \u7749 havarmmadeva pu po\u109 \u771  ku v\u7771 \u7779 uva\u7749 \u7779 a paramabh\u363 my\u257 -\

\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0  ddhi(pa) v\uc0\u299 rasi\u7749 ha campa pu po\u109 \u771  ku nan\'b7 sam\u299 papr\u257 \u7751 na tak-\

\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0  e \uc0\u347 ivasth\u257 \u7751 na avi\u347 ekha r\u257 ja di paratmaja nan\'b7 d\u7771 \u109 \u771  r\u257 ja p\u7771 -\

\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0  (th)ama-brahma-ka\uc0\u347 attri-vai\u347 a-\u347 \u363 d\u7771 -h\u299 \u7751 nad\u299 \u7751 \u7751 \u257 -sa\u7751 tusta-\

\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0  m\uc0\u257 \u7751 nasa\cf2  \cf0 kra\uc0\u109 \u771 tthi v\u299 j\u257 k\u363 ra pak\u257  yava\u7751 ar\u257 ja v\u257  vala\

\f2\b (10)
\f0\b0  marai aneka \uc0\u257 yuddha k\u257  rijan\'b7 vyuha sam\u299 pa \u347 r\u299  vija-\

\f2\b (11)
\f0\b0  y\uc0\u257 pur\u299  hetu y\u257 \u109 \u771  po\u109 \u771  ku \u347 ivak\u257 ru\u7751 na\cf2  \cf0 ku\uc0\u109 \u771  jak\'b7 di\

\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0  mahn\uc0\u257 kire\u7751 dra sida\u7717  \u347 r\u299 \u7779 nar\u257 jav\u257 ri do\u7747  n\u257 -\

\f2\b (13)
\f0\b0  yak\uc0\u257 yuddha ya do\u7747  vala\'a0dinan\'b7 ya kl\u257 \u7717  di maranna\

\f2\b (14)
\f0\b0  nau take nagara di \uc0\u347 aka \u347 a\u347 \u257 \u109 \u771 ka-rahutauva-r\u257 ja-r\u257 ja-v\u257 -\

\f2\b (15)
\f0\b0  n(n)a pu po\uc0\u109 \u771  ku k\u257  ma\'b0udy\u257 \u7751 na nau ta\u109 \u771 l\'b7 nagara yvan\'b7 mak\'b7\

\f2\b (16)
\f0\b0  puru\uc0\u347 \u347 a mat\u7771 \u299  a\u347 va gaja aneka dravya yavanar\u257 ja\

\f2\b (17) 
\f0\b0 dhai r\uc0\u257 jagottra v\u257  r\u257 japuttr\u299  marai pam(v)ra\u109 \u771  pu po\u109 \u771 \

\f2\b (18)
\f0\b0  ku ma\'b0udy\uc0\u257 \u7751 na gul\u257 c\'b7 ta\u109 \u771 l\'b7 vijay\u257 pur\u299  samp\u363 -\cf2 \

\f2\b \cf0 (19)
\f0\b0  r\uc0\u7751 na pak\u257  vr\u299 \u109 \u771  ma\u7751 tr\u299  kar\u257 vv\'b7 ya do\u7747 \cf2  \cf0 bha\uc0\u7751 \u7693 \u257 ra mavv\u257 \u109 \u771 \

\f2\b (20) 
\f0\b0 mahn\uc0\u257 kirendra di (ma)ddhamag\u7771 \u257 ma pu po\u109 \u771  ku ma\'b0udy\u257 nna\

\f2\b (21)
\f0\b0  tu\uc0\u7749 go marai k\u257  jak\'b7 di \u347 r\u299 gajar\u257 ja gvac\'b7 mahn\u257 -\

\f2\b (22)
\f0\b0  kirendra lo k\uc0\u257 la gvac\'b7 di \u7749 auk\'b7 vana\u109 \u771 k\'b7 (s\u257 )\
\
Face B\

\f2\b (1)
\f0\b0  (k)[i]r\uc0\u257 te\u347 vara pu po\u109 \u771  ku \u7749 an\'b7 devandasamati\u7717  ya rak\u7779 \u257  r\u257 ja pu\

\f2\b (2)
\f0\b0  po\uc0\u109 \u771  ku di va\u7751 na dada\u109 \u771 n\'b7 k\u257 la si\u109 \u771  tma\u109 \u771  kl\u257 \u7717  di p\u257 ppa\'a0\u7749 an\'b7 ya-\

\f2\b (3) 
\f0\b0 \uc0\u347 a\cf2  \cf0 di loka \uc0\u7749 an\'b7 paraloka dudi\u109 \u771  pu po\u109 \u771  ku kamvac\'b7 tuva\u109 \u771  \u347 \u257 la pa-\

\f2\b (4)
\f0\b0  vvak\'b7 anvak\'b7 vr(i)\uc0\u109 \u771  n\u257 ma tuva\u109 \u771  \u7751 rap\u257  pa\u7749 ap\'b7 a(dh)v\u257  ni\cf2  \cf0 klu\uc0\u109 \u771  jal\u257 -\

\f2\b (5)
\f0\b0 \'a0\uc0\u7751  n\u299  sam\u363  \u7749 an\'b7 nagara al\u257  ri\u109 \u771  mak\'b7 bha\u7751 \u7693 \u257 ra vana\u7717  n\u299  krau\u109 \u771  (t)ral\u257 y\'b7\

\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0  m(\uc0\u257 )\u7717  khin\'b7 \cb3 makan\uc0\u257 ya\cb1  ga\uc0\u7717  kv\u299 ra tr\u257  marai \cb3 makan\uc0\u257 ya\cb1  do\uc0\u7747  bha-				\cb3 see note in ECIC X\cb1 \

\f2\b (7)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u7751 \u7693 \u257 ra vuka\u109 \u771 n\'b7 ri\u109 \u771  k\u257 la sth\u257 ppa cai(t)tra \u7751 \u299  di \u347 akar\u257 ja \u7751 rapa\u7717 -\

\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0  (lok)a-\uc0\u347 ara\u7717 -bh\u363 dhara\u7717  vu\u7717  bhoga pamra\u109 \u771 \u109 \u771  di cai(t)tra kir\u257 te\u347 vara pu\

\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0  (po)\uc0\u109 \u771  ku || n\u299  do\u7747  d\u7771 vya lumva\u7717  di y\u257 \u109 \u771  kralauk\'b7 m\u257 \u7717  vanna \'92n\u257 -\

\f2\b (10)
\f0\b0  [k\'b7] (2) thil\'b7 klau\uc0\u7749 \'b7 m\u257 \u7717  1 thil\'b7 \u347 va\u109 \u771 n\'b7 pirak\'b7 18 thil\'b7 tra-\

\f2\b (11)
\f0\b0  [l\uc0\u257 ]y\'b7 pirak\'b7 13 thil\'b7 dya\u109 \u771 p\'b7 pirak\'b7 8 thil\'b7 bhri\u7749 g\u257 ra\

\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0  [pi](ra)k\'b7 20 thil\'b7 kala\uc0\u347 a pirak\'b7 3 thil\'b7 uk\'b7 pira-\

\f2\b (13)
\f0\b0  [k\'b7] (2) thil\'b7 suvauk\'b7 pirak\'b7 4 vau\uc0\u7717  4 thil\'b7 (c)\u257 n\'b7 dh\u363 p pirak\'b7\

\f2\b (14)
\f0\b0  [#] (vau)\uc0\u7717  2 thil\'b7 li 8 gra\u7747  klau\u109 \u771  pirak\'b7 sa vau\u7717  1 thil\'b7 kralau-\

\f2\b (15)
\f0\b0  [k\'b7 pi]rak\'b7 sa vau\uc0\u7717  2 thil\'b7 sralau\u109 \u771  pirak\'b7 sa vau\u7717  10 thil\'b7\

\f2\b (16) 
\f0\b0 [ma]d\uc0\u257  hum\u257  si parok\'b7 s(i) vu\u7717  ni cai(t)ra (d)i hum\u257  bvar\'b7 (p)a-\

\f2\b (17)
\f0\b0  [\uc0\u7751 d\u299 p\'b7] (d)i ata\u109 \u771  vvil\'b7 110 j\u257 k\'b7 vijai\u7717  hum\u257  bvar\'b7 pa\u7751 d\u299 p\'b7\

\f2\b (18)
\f0\b0  [s\uc0\u257 ] (sth)\u257 \u7751 na ttr\u257  di lumven\'b7 170 vijai\u7717  hum\u257  bvar\'b7 la\u7749 \u299 -\

\f2\b (19)
\f0\b0  [k\'b7 di] lumven\'b7 250 vijai\uc0\u7717  | hum\u257  bvar\'b7 la\u7749 \u299 k\'b7 s\u257  sth\u257 (\u7751 na t\u7771 \u257 )\

\f2\b (20)
\f0\b0  [di ha]jai akauvv\'b7 200 vije\uc0\u7717  hum\u257  bvar\'b7 la\u7749 \u299 k\'b7 s\u257  sth\u257 -\cf2 \

\f2\b \cf0 (21)
\f0\b0  [\uc0\u7751 na] tt(r)\u257  di tanvantar\u257 \u7749 \u347 \u257 ri\u7717  2(8)00 vijai\u7717  | \u7749 an\'b7 campa si (vu-)\

\f2\b (22)
\f0\b0  [\uc0\u7717 ] dauk\'b7 di \u7749 auk\'b7 n\u299  \u7749 an\'b7 lauvv\'b7 yvan\'b7 kur\'b7 sya\u7747 \

\f2\b (23) 
\f0\b0 [ja]v\uc0\u257  va\u7749 gal\u257  avi\u7717  170\'a0\u7749 an\'b7 mmahn\u257 kire\u7751 nra (ha-)\
\
Face c\

\f2\b (1)
\f0\b0  y\uc0\u257 vv\'b7 tmu\u109 \u771  dv\u257  plu\u7717  klu ku \{1/2\}\

\f2\b (2) 
\f0\b0 kvak\'b7 \uc0\u7749 an\'b7 r\u363 ppa ta gvac\'b7 (na)n\'b7 d\u7771 [\u109 \u771 ] \

\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0 \cf2  \cf0 n\uc0\u257 ma\cf2  \cf0 b\uc0\u7771 va\u7779 asr\u257 di man\u7771 au\u7749 \'b7\

\f2\b (4)
\f0\b0  (cam\'b7) y\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  in\u257  ja (si)ddhi\cf2  \cf0 sula-\

\f2\b (5) 
\f0\b0 k\uc0\u7779 ana mahn\u257 ka(ta) samp\u363 rna-\

\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0  lak\uc0\u7779 ana mad\u257  kuku\u109 \u771 \cf2  \cf0 sa plu-\

\f2\b (7) 
\f0\b0 \uc0\u7717  salapan\'b7 vri\u109 \u771  n\u257 ma bva \{1\}\

\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0  (ramatta)ta\uc0\u7749 ga pu po\u109 \u771  ku \{1\}\

\f2\b (9) 
\f0\b0 pajye\uc0\u109 \u771  va\u109 \u771 k\'b7 krau\u109 \u771  ha[y\u257 -]\

\f2\b (10)
\f0\b0  vv\'b7 man\uc0\u7771 au(\u109 \u771 ) parok\'b7 pa \{1/2\}\

\f2\b (11)
\f0\b0  hum\uc0\u257  pada\u109 \u771 \u7749 \'b7 r\u257 ja \{2\}\

\f2\b (12)
\f0\b0  vu\uc0\u7717  yvan\'b7 (s)i mak\'b7 [laki\u109 \u771 ]\

\f2\b (13)
\f0\b0  krumi\uc0\u109 \u771  luvai\u7717  klu\u109 \u771  r\u299 (v)[uv\'b7] \{1\}\

\f2\b (14)
\f0\b0  tu sy\uc0\u257 \u7747  (s)va\u109 \u771 n\'b7 v\u299 j\u257 [k\u363 ra]\

\f2\b (15)
\f0\b0  n\uc0\u257 ma sakra\u109 \u771 tthi pu [po\u109 \u771 ]\

\f2\b (16)
\f0\b0  ku ma\'b0udy\uc0\u257 \u7751 na va(la) [gul\u257 -]\

\f2\b (17) 
\f0\b0 c\'b7 mahn\uc0\u257 k\u299 re\u7751 d\u7771  \{2\}\

\f2\b (18) 
\f0\b0 r\uc0\u257 pur\u299  \u7749 an\'b7 dada\u109 \u771 n\'b7\cf2  \cf0 \{2\} [bha-]\

\f2\b (19) 
\f0\b0 \uc0\u7751 \u7693 \u257 ra ya mad\u257  ma(hn)\u257 [kire-]\

\f2\b (20)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u7751 dra hetu ri gan\u299  \{2\} [sa-]\

\f2\b (21)
\f0\b0  k\uc0\u7771 \u109 \u771 tthi\cf2  \cf0 dada\uc0\u109 \u771 n\'b7 va(na)[\u109 \u771 ]k\'b7 [\'85 \u347 i-]\

\f2\b (22)
\f0\b0  vasth\uc0\u257 \u7751 na ra\u7717  k\u257  p\u363  \{2/3\}\

\f2\b (23)
\f0\b0  (v)ya sth\uc0\u257 ppa caittra n\u299  \{2/3\}\
\
Face d\

\f2\b (1)
\f0\b0  n\uc0\u257 ma (th)\u299 rtatna (bha)git\'b7\

\f2\b (2)
\f0\b0  mak\'b7 hast\uc0\u299  hastin\u299  a-\

\f2\b (3)
\f0\b0  sai\uc0\u7717  lamauv\'b7 kruv\u257 \u109 \u771  lu-\

\f2\b (4)
\f0\b0  mva\uc0\u7717  pa(pa)\u109 \u771 mvra\u109 \u771  caittra n\u299  je\u109 \u771 \

\f2\b (5) 
\f0\b0 dharmma || ni do\uc0\u7747  bha\u7751 \u7693 \u257 ra naga-
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b (6)
\f0\b0  ra (k)v\uc0\u299 [r]\'b7 si bhara\u109 \u771  devat\u257  ra\cf2 \

\f2\b \cf0 (7)
\f0\b0  vri\uc0\u109 \u771  si mak\'b7 patupak\'b7
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b (8)
\f0\b0  v\uc0\u257 \cf2  \cf0 marai dauk\'b7 di l\uc0\u257 bha bha-\

\f2\b (9)
\f0\b0  \uc0\u7751 \u7693 \u257 ra v\u7771 i\u109 \u771  dauk\'b7\cf2  \cf0 pamv\uc0\u7771 \u109 \u771 \u109 \u771  cait\u7771 a n\u299 \
\

\f2\b Notes on readings
\f0\b0 \
	Face A\
1. 	
\f1\i paramar\uc0\u257 jotauma
\f0\i0 : 
\f1\i paramar\uc0\u257 jo tau\u7747 
\f0\i0  (?) Finot, 
\f1\i paramar\uc0\u257 jo
\f0\i0  
\f1\i taum
\f0\i0  AVS. Understand 
\f1\i paramar\uc0\u257 jottama
\f0\i0 .\
	
\f1\i d\uc0\u7771 i\u109 \u771 
\f0\i0 : here, as elsewhere in this text, we seem to find double vocalization (
\f1\i \uc0\u7771 +i
\f0\i0 ), unless we may assume that the distinction between the subscript 
\f1\i r
\f0\i0  and 
\f1\i \uc0\u7771  
\f0\i0 signs depends strictly on context. Cf. this face, l. 16.\
2. 	\'b0
\f1\i vi\uc0\u347 eka
\f0\i0 : \'b0
\f1\i vi\uc0\u347 e\u7779 a
\f0\i0  Finot AVS. We seem to be dealing with a variant spelling for \'b0
\f1\i bhi\uc0\u7779 eka
\f0\i0 . Cf. this face, l. 7, and C.\'a0214, l. 5.\
3\'964. 
\f1\i di \uc0\u347 aka sida\u7717  \u7771 \u347 i-p\u257 vaka-agni-r\u363 pa | dunan\'b7 s\u363 \u7751 u y\u257 \u109 \u771  po\u109 \u771  ku \u347 r\u299 
\f0\i0 :
\f1\i  n\uc0\u299  \'85 1322\'85 an\u257 k. y\u257 \u7749  po ku \u347 r\u299  
\f0\i0 AVS.\
5. 	\'b0
\f1\i varmma
\f0\i0 \'b0: maybe the word is spelt \'b0
\f1\i v\uc0\u7771 mma
\f0\i0 \'b0 here, but the presence of
\f1\i  \uc0\u7771 
\f0\i0  is uncertain.\cf2 \
\cf0 5\'966.  
\f1\i paramabh\uc0\u363 my\u257 ddhipa
\f0\i0 :  understand 
\f1\i paramabh\uc0\u363 myadhipa
\f0\i0 . Or read \'b0
\f1\i bh\uc0\u363 my\u257 sthira
\f0\i0 ?\
6. 	
\f1\i sam\uc0\u299 papr\u257 \u7751 na
\f0\i0 : we presume that 
\f1\i sam\uc0\u257 ptapr\u257 \u7751 a 
\f0\i0 is intended.\
6\'967. 
\f1\i take
\f0\i0 : the 
\f1\i e
\f0\i0 -vocalization stands at the end of line 6, the 
\f1\i k
\f0\i0  at the beginning of 7.\
7. 	
\f1\i avi\uc0\u347 ekha
\f0\i0 : understand 
\f1\i abhi\uc0\u7779 eka
\f0\i0 . Cf. this face, lines 1\'962.\cf2 \
\cf0 	
\f1\i paratmaja
\f0\i0 : this must be corrected to 
\f1\i param\uc0\u257 tmaja
\f0\i0 . Cf. C. 11, l. 1: 
\f1\i \uc0\u347 r\u299  harijit param\u257 tmaja y\u257 \u7749  po\u109 \u771  ku indravarmma paramodbhava di p(u) po\u7749  vy\u257  parame\u347 var\u299 
\f0\i0 ; C. 215, l. 4\'965: 
\f1\i paramotbhava di y\uc0\u257 \u109 \u771  pu \u347 r\u299  r\u257 japaram\u257 tmaja
\f0\i0 .\
7\'968. 
\f1\i p\uc0\u7771 (th)ama-
\f0\i0 : understand 
\f1\i prathama-
\f0\i0 .
\f2\b \

\f0\b0 9. \cf2 	
\f1\i \cf0 kra\uc0\u109 \u771 tthi
\f0\i0 : cf. face c, l. 15. The meaning of the word is unknown, and the reading is uncertain.\
	
\f1\i v\uc0\u299 j\u257 k\u363 ra
\f0\i0 : possibility of reading 
\f1\i v\uc0\u299 j\u257 p\u363 ra
\f0\i0 ?\
12. 	
\f1\i \uc0\u347 r\u299 \u7779 na\'b0
\f0\i0 : possibly an error for 
\f1\i \uc0\u347 r\u299 k\u7771 \u7779 na\'b0
\f0\i0 , for
\f1\i  \uc0\u347 r\u299 b\u7771 \u7779 u\'b0
\f0\i0 , or for 
\f1\i \uc0\u347 r\u299 gaja
\f0\i0 \'b0.\
13. 	
\f1\i ma unna
\f0\i0 : this is very likely an error for 
\f1\i ma
\f0\i0 \'b0
\f1\i udy\uc0\u257 nna
\f0\i0 , cf. this face, l. 20.\
16. 	
\f1\i mat\uc0\u7771 \u299 
\f0\i0 : to be emended to 
\f1\i putr\uc0\u299 
\f0\i0 ? Cf. 
\f1\i r\uc0\u257 japuttr\u299 
\f0\i0  in the next line.\cf2 \
\cf0 \
	Face B\
1. 	
\f1\i devandasamati\uc0\u7717 
\f0\i0 : the meaning is uncertain and the reading and word division is hence uncertain too. We hesitantly conjecture that it is an error for 
\f1\i devar\uc0\u363 pa-mati
\f0\i0 .\
2. 	
\f1\i tma\uc0\u109 \u771 
\f0\i0 : this must be correct to 
\f1\i tmu\uc0\u109 \u771 
\f0\i0 . See face c, l. 1.\
3.	
\f1\i kamvac
\f0\i0 \'b7: or 
\f1\i kamv(u)c
\f0\i0 \'b7? The meaning of the word is unknown, and the reading hence unsure.\
14. 	
\f1\i gra\uc0\u7747 
\f0\i0 : this must likely be corrected to 
\f1\i dra\uc0\u7747 
\f0\i0 .\
15. 	
\f1\i sralau\uc0\u109 \u771 
\f0\i0 : read 
\f1\i pralau\uc0\u109 \u771 
\f0\i0 ?\
16. 	
\f1\i bvar
\f0\i0 \'b7: this word, re-occuring several times in the following lines, seems to be unknown elsewhere. The reading is in each instance uncertain for the first consonant.\
20.	
\f1\i vije\uc0\u7717 
\f0\i0 : read 
\f1\i vijai\uc0\u7717 
\f0\i0 .\
\
	Face c\
1\'962. 
\f1\i dv\uc0\u257  plu\u7717  ku \{1/2\} kvak\'b7 \u7749 an\'b7 r\u363 ppa ta gvac\'b7
\f0\i0 : Cf. C. 42, l. 7\'968 
\f1\i pu po\uc0\u109 \u771  ku yv\u257  vri\u109 \u771  kirendra dv\u257  plu\u7717  kuku\u109 \u771  ka pu po\u109 \u771  ku gvac\'b7 |
\f0\i0 . Perhaps restore 
\f1\i [sra]kvak
\f0\i0  or 
\f1\i [pra]kvak
\f0\i0 , a word denoting some kind of metal attested in other inscriptions. Perhaps
\f1\i  ta
\f0\i0  is an error for 
\f1\i ka
\f0\i0 .\
13\'9614. 
\f1\i \{1\}tu
\f0\i0 : a possible restoration would be 
\f1\i hetu
\f0\i0 .\
20\'9621. 	
\f1\i sak\uc0\u7771 \u109 \u771 tthi
\f0\i0 : cf. the following two passages above, face A, l. 9 
\f1\i kra\uc0\u109 \u771 tthi 
\f0\i0 and this face, l. 15 
\f1\i pakra\uc0\u109 \u771 tthi
\f0\i0 .\
\
	Face d\
1. 	
\f1\i (bha)git
\f0\i0 \'b7: one could read also 
\f1\i cagit
\f0\i0 , but a word 
\f1\i bhagit 
\f0\i0 (of unknown meaning) has been read in C. 92, face A, l. 16.\
5\'966. 
\f1\i nagara (k)v\uc0\u299 [r]
\f0\i0 \'b7: the reading is uncertain. The subscript 
\f1\i m
\f0\i0  of 
\f1\i dharmma
\f0\i0  in l. 5 seems to have caused displacement of the 
\f1\i \uc0\u299 
\f0\i0  and 
\f1\i vir\uc0\u257 ma
\f0\i0  sign in l. 6. The space below the 
\f1\i vir\uc0\u257 ma 
\f0\i0 sign seems empty. It is hard to identify two consonant signs (
\f1\i k
\f0\i0  and 
\f1\i r
\f0\i0 ). Note that the word 
\f1\i kv\uc0\u299 r 
\f0\i0 is written without 
\f1\i vir\uc0\u257 ma
\f0\i0  sign on face B, l. 6. An alternative that we consider even more problematic would be to read 
\f1\i nagar\uc0\u299  yva[n]
\f0\i0 \'b7.\
6. 	
\f1\i bhara\uc0\u109 \u771 
\f0\i0 : this is not a known word; one could also read 
\f1\i dara\uc0\u109 \u771 
\f0\i0 , but this is equally unknown. Perhaps it is a mistake for the graphically rather similar sequence 
\f1\i vu\uc0\u7717  di
\f0\i0 . \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\pardeftab708\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}