{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22640\viewh9040\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 C. 150\
\
Inscription bouddhique \cf2 de R\uc0\u7891 n \cf0 (Qu\uc0\u7843 ng B\'ecnh)\
\uc0\u272 \'e0 N\u7861 ng, BTC 
\b 1
\b0 ,6\
\
EFEO estampages: 843, n. \cf3 ****\cf0 .\
\
Editions: Edouard Huber, \'c9tudes indochinoises XI: L\'92inscription bouddhique de Ron (Quang-Binh), BEFEO XI (1911), p. 267 [EEPC, p. 241]; Majumdar, pp. 225-226; Golzio, 77.\
\

\b Text
\b0 \
Verified by Arlo Griffiths, using the inked EFEO estampage.\
\

\b (1)
\b0 \cf2  o;m tasmai bhagavate\cf0  \uc0\u347 r\cf2 \uc0\u299  \u7693 amare\u347 \cf0 var\uc0\u257 ya tilvit\'b7k\u7779 etra\u7747  \cf3 v\cf2 \uc0\u257 \u7749 k\cf0 \uc0\u7779 etra\u7747  \cf3 dv[i]\cf0  ...\

\b \cf2 (2)
\b0  kos\'b7rulu\uc0\u7749 \'b7k\u7779 etra\u7747  eta\cf0 t sarvva\uc0\u7747  \cf3 dra\uc0\u7747  \cf0 vih\uc0\u257 radravya\u7747  dv\u299 \u347 atam\u257 \u7751 a\u7747  pa\'f1c\u257 \u347 adadhika\cf3 [\uc0\u7747 ]\cf0  \uc0\u347 r\u299 ...\

\b (3)
\b0  r\uc0\u257 jen\cf2 a pit\uc0\u7771 sadbh\cf0 aktimat\uc0\u257  dattam iti || ye rak\u7779 an\cf2 ti ca tad... \

\b (4)
\b0  cchantu sur\uc0\u257 layam\'b7 ye n\u257 \u347 ayan[t]i ...\
\

\b Translation
\b0 \
\cf0 Om. \'93To the lord \uc0\u346 r\u299  \u7692 amare\u347 vara was given, by the king ..., who was full of pure devotion for his parents: the field Tilvit, the field V\u257 \u7749  ..., the field Kos Rulu\u7749 , all that property of the monastery, measuring in coins (
\i dra\uc0\u7747 
\i0 ) two hundred plus fifty.\'94 [Therefore]: \'93They who protect that ... will go heaven. They who destroy ...\'94.\
\

\b Variant readings
\b0 \
1. o;m: nama\uc0\u7717  Huber.\cf2 \
1. bhagavate: bh\uc0\u257 gavate Huber.\
1. \uc0\u7693 amare\u347 var\u257 ya: \u7693 \u257 mare\u347 var\u257 ya\cf0  Huber.\
1. \cf3 v\cf0 \uc0\u257 \u7749 k\u7779 etra\u7747  \cf3 dv[i]\cf0 : p\'e3rk\uc0\u7779 etra\u7747  tradva\u7717  Huber. Huber inserts a note between the two words, stating \'93Corr. 
\i m\uc0\u257 nam
\i0 \'94. It is obscure what he wished to correct to 
\i m\uc0\u257 nam
\i0 , and why. There definitely is no repetition of the syllable
\i  tra
\i0  at the end, as Huber seems to have supposed.\
\cf2 2. kos\'b7rulu\uc0\u7749 \'b7k\u7779 etra\u7747 : ... k\u7779 etram Huber (reading only the last element, and brushing over the anusv\u257 ra).\
2. dra\uc0\u7747 : vra\u7717  Huber.\
3. r\uc0\u257 jena pit\u7771 sadb\cf0 haktimat\uc0\u257 : r\u257 jena ... bhaktimat\u257  Huber.\
\cf2 3-4. rak\uc0\u7779 anti ca tad... cchantu sur\u257 layam\'b7 ye: r\cf0 ak\uc0\u7779 anti ... ye Huber.\cf2 \
}